<!--
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2000-2003 Shie Erlich <erlich@users.sourceforge.net>
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2000-2003 Rafi Yanai <yanai@users.sourceforge.net>
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2004-2010 Frank Schoolmeesters <codeknight@users.sourceforge.net>
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2000-2022 Krusader Krew <https://krusader.org>
-->
<sect1 id="calculate">
  <title
>Beräkna använt utrymme</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary
>Använt utrymme</primary>
  </indexterm>
  <!-- Thanks to Heiner Eichmann -->
  <para
>There are two ways to calculate the occupied space of files/folders.</para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para
>Pressing the configurable shortcut for the <guilabel
>Calculate occupied space</guilabel
> on a folder under the cursor instantly calculates the occupied size.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para
>To calculate how much disk space is occupied by the selected files and folders in the active panel select <menuchoice
> <guimenu
>Edit</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Calculate Occupied Space</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
>. After a small delay, a dialog box will be displayed with total occupied space and the number of files and folders you selected. The space occupied by every selected folder will be shown as if the user just pressed configurable shortcut on those folders. If the active panel is browsing an archive, the numbers will apply to the unpacked size of the selected files and folders, not their compressed size. After the calculation the selection state will be toggled and the cursor will move one step downwards.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para
>Att beräkna använt utrymme för fjärrfilsystem stöds. <note
> <para
>Att utföra åtgärden på ett mycket stort filsystem (tusentals filer) kan ta lång tid. Du kan avbryta beräkningsprocessen när som helst genom att klicka på knappen <guibutton
>Avbryt</guibutton
>.</para>
  </note
></para>
</sect1>
