<chapter id="installation">
  <!-- **********************************************************************
                               installation.docbook
                            ++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  copyright            : (C) 2000 - 2010
                          Rafi Yanai, Shie Erlich, Frank Schoolmeesters
                          & the Krusader Krew
  e-mail               : krusader@users.sourceforge.net
  web site             : http://www.krusader.org
  description          : a Krusader Documentation File

***************************************************************************
* Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this            *
* document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,         *
* Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software         *
* Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and        *
* no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is available on the         *
* GNU site http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html or by writing to:         *
* Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,    *
* MA 02111-1307, USA.                                                     *
*********************************************************************** -->
  <title>Installation of Krusader</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>Installation</primary>
  </indexterm>
  <sect1 id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <para>In order to successfully use the most recent
    &krusader;, you need &kf5;
    &gt;= 5.18</para>
<para>Required &kde; version:</para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.01: &kde;
        2</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.02 - 1.40: &kde;
        3.0 - &kde; 3.2</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.40: prefers &kde;
        3.2 (otherwise all features will not be available)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.50 - v1.51: &kde;
        3.2 - &kde; 3.3 (Konfigurator crash on
        &kde; 3.4)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.60.0 - v1.70.0:
        &kde; 3.3 - &kde; 3.5</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.70.x: prefers
        &kde; &gt;= 3.4 (otherwise all
        features will not be available)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.80.0: &kde; 3.4 -
        &kde; 3.5</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.90.0: &kde; 3.2 -
        &kde; 3.5</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v2.4.x: &kde; 4.x</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v2.5.x: &kf5-full;</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <para>Platforms: 
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>All POSIX
        (&Linux;/BSD/&UNIX;-like OSes),
        &Solaris;</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>All BSD Platforms
        (<trademark class="copyright">FreeBSD</trademark>/<trademark class="registered">NetBSD</trademark>/<trademark class="registered">OpenBSD</trademark>/&MacOS;)</para>
      </listitem>
      <!-- Not here anymore
         <listitem>
        <para>&Windows; XP and Vista</para>
      </listitem>-->
    </itemizedlist></para>
    <para>In order to handle archives, checksums and other utilities they must be configured in our
    <link linkend="konfig-dependencies">configuration tool</link>.
    When running &krusader; for the first time the available utilities will be autodetected, and
    a report will be shown in the first lanch wizard. Afterwards additional utilities can be 
    <link linkend="konfig-dependencies">added/removed/changed</link>.</para>
    <para>A package of popular (un)packers, &krusader;
    itself and add-ons can be found on the
    <ulink url="https://krusader.org/get-krusader/index.html">&krusader; download page</ulink>.</para>
    <para>For more requirements, see below. Have a look at the
    <link linkend="faq">FAQ</link> section as well.</para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="getting-krusader">
    <title>Obtaining &krusader;</title>
    <para>The latest information about &krusader; can be
    found on the <ulink url="http://www.krusader.org">Krusader website</ulink> .</para>
    <sect2 id="krusader-download">
      <title>&krusader; Downloads</title>
      <para>It is recommended to use the &krusader; package
      that is provided by your distribution.
      <ulink url="http://distrowatch.com/search.php?pkg=krusader">Distrowatch.com</ulink> is a great resource to check
      the availability. If your distribution does not offer
      &krusader;, please contact the creators of your
      distribution and ask them to provide a &krusader;
      package</para>
      <para>The latest version, as well as the older versions, can
      be found on the <ulink url="https://krusader.org/get-krusader/index.html">&krusader; download page</ulink> (current version) and on the
      <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=6488">Sourceforge mirrors</ulink> (outdated versions). It contains the source tarballs,
      RPM and DEB packages to whatever distro the
      &krusader;-Krew is using and packages build by
      &krusader; users and third parties.</para>
      <para>Distributions who provide &krusader;:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para><ulink url="https://www.suse.com/">&SuSE;</ulink></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para><ulink url="https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pkgdb/package/rpms/krusader/"><trademark>Fedora</trademark></ulink> via
          <command># dnf install krusader</command> will do the job.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para><ulink url="http://packages.debian.org/krusader"><trademark class="registered">Debian</trademark></ulink>, on our
          <ulink url="https://krusader.org/get-krusader/index.html">&krusader; download page</ulink> you might find more recent
          DEB packages. Note: usually <trademark class="registered">Debian</trademark> packages
          work also on distributions that are "based on
          <trademark class="registered">Debian</trademark>", and some of these provide their own
          (incompatible) packages.
          <ulink url="http://packages.ubuntu.com/krusader"><trademark class="registered">Ubuntu</trademark>/<trademark class="registered">Kubuntu</trademark></ulink>,
          <trademark class="registered">Knoppix</trademark>
          4.x DVD, <trademark class="registered">Kanotix</trademark>, &etc;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para><ulink url="https://madb.mageia.org/package/show/name/krusader"><trademark class="registered">Mageia</trademark></ulink> via the contrib repository 
              <command># urpmi krusader</command> will do the job.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para><ulink url="http://packages.gentoo.org/package/kde-misc/krusader"><trademark class="registered">Gentoo</trademark></ulink>.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para><ulink url="https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/krusader/"><trademark class="registered">Arch Linux</trademark></ulink>,
          <ulink url="http://frugalware.org/packages.php?id=280"><trademark class="registered">Frugalware Linux</trademark></ulink>,
          <trademark class="registered">PCLinuxOS</trademark>,
          <ulink url="www.altlinux.com/"><trademark class="registered">ALT Linux</trademark></ulink>.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para><ulink url="http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/ports.cgi?query=krusader&amp;stype=all"><trademark class="copyright">FreeBSD</trademark></ulink>, the port was
          maintained by 
          <link linkend="credits">Heiner Eichmann</link>.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para><ulink url="http://pkgsrc.se/sysutils/krusader"><trademark class="registered">NetBSD</trademark></ulink>,
          <ulink url="http://www.lunar-linux.org/"><trademark class="registered">Lunar Linux</trademark></ulink>
          ,<trademark class="registered">Ark Linux</trademark>, <trademark>OpenLX</trademark>.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>More distributions can be found with
          <ulink url="http://distrowatch.com/search.php?pkg=krusader">Distrowatch.com</ulink>.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <para>Use the installation tools included in your
      distro to install the &krusader; package. You
      might need an internet connection if &krusader; is
      not included on the &CD; or DVD. There are
      probably other distributions which include
      &krusader;. If you know of one, please send
      feedback so that we can include it on the distrolist.</para>
      <para>Others 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para><trademark class="registered">Slackware</trademark> txz binaries can usually be
          found ion the Slackware package repositories.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>There is a <link linkend="kde4_mac_install">&MacOS;-X port</link>.</para>
        </listitem>
        <!-- There is no port available now
        <listitem>
          <para>There is a <link linkend="kde4_win_install">&Windows; port</link>.</para>
	</listitem>-->	
      </itemizedlist></para>
            
      <para>Search engines 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>You can also find packages on &Linux;
          software archives such as <ulink url="http://freshmeat.net/projects/krusader/">freshmeat.net</ulink>.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>If you can not find a package for your distribution,
          we recommend searching for it with
          <ulink url="http://rpmfind.net/linux/rpm2html/search.php?query=krusader&amp;submit=Search+...">rpmfind</ulink>, <ulink url="http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/3/search/krusader">rpmpbone</ulink> or
          <ulink url="http://rpmseek.com/rpm-pl/krusader.html?hl=com&amp;cx=2155:K:0">rpmseek</ulink>.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>If you enjoy using &krusader;, we
      would appreciate it if you went to one of these sites and
      rated it.</para>
      <para>If you still can not find a package, follow the
      installation procedure on how to compile
      &krusader; from source. This very thorough HowTo
      describes the process in such detail that even newcomers
      should not have any problems.</para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="version_scheme">
      <title>Version Scheme</title>
      <para>A new version scheme has been used since
      &krusader;-1.60.0 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>First digit - the major version</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Second digit(s) - percentage of features completed
          for this major version</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Third digit(s) - bugfixes.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>In essence, releasing
      &krusader;-1.60.0 means that we believe that
      &krusader; is about 60% done with all the features
      we had scheduled for the 1.x.x series. Series up to 2.4.x are
      &kde; 4.x releases. 2.5.x series are the releases for &kf5-full;. Hopefully, it is easy to
      understand.</para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="krusader_stable">
      <title>Stable Version</title>
      <para>
        <filename>krusader-x.xx.tar.gz</filename>
      </para>
      <note>
        <para>&krusader; is released under the
        <link linkend="credits">&GNU; General Public License (GPL)</link>. This means that THE PROGRAM IS
        PROVIDED "AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, even when it
        is marked as a stable release.</para>
      </note>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="krusader_devel">
    <title>Development Version (beta release)</title>
    <para>
      <filename>krusader-x.xx-betax.tar.gz</filename>
    </para>
    <para>Before every stable release we release at least one
    development version in order to hunt down the bugs.</para>
    <warning>
      <para>These releases are beta releases and will probably
      contain some bugs.</para>
    </warning><note><para>
                 If you are using a <link linkend="krusader_devel">development</link> or
                 <link linkend="krusader_git">Git</link> version, it is possible that the latest
                 new features are not yet in the "The Krusader Handbook".
                 Please read the 
		 <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader?path=ChangeLog">Changelog</ulink>
		 file online or in the &krusader;
                 sources to find out more about the new features.
                 For a brief description, please read the 
		 <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader?path=SVNNEWS">SVNNEWS</ulink>
		 file online
                 or in the &krusader; sources.
                       <link linkend="faqg_wish">User feedback</link> and
                       <link linkend="faqg_bug_report">Bug reports</link> are always welcome!
                 </para></note> 
    <para>The beta release has 3 goals: 
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Apply a feature-freeze until the stable is released,
        only bugs will be fixed. New features have to wait until
        the stable is released.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Obtain feedback from &krusader; users so
        that we can fix the bugs.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Give translators time to update the translations for
        the coming stable release.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist></para></sect2>

    <sect2 id="krusader_git">
      <title>Git</title>
      
     <para><ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader">Git</ulink> is used for our sourcecode repository.
      It is also possible to <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader?path=/">Browse the Git Repository</ulink>.</para>
      <para>To check out the latest development &krusader; 2.x
      for &kf5-full; from Git:
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>git</command> <option>clone git://anongit.kde.org/krusader</option></userinput></screen>
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="krusader_old">
      <title>Older Releases</title>
      <para>If you are looking for older releases we recommend the
      <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=6488">Sourceforge mirrors</ulink>, available from our project
      page.</para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
   <title>Krusader installation instructions</title>
      <note>
       <para>Please read the 
       <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader?path=INSTALL"><filename>INSTALL</filename></ulink> 
        file of the Krusader sources, it contains all latest installation instructions.</para>
      </note>

      <note>
        <para>From version &krusader;-2.5.0 and higher is &kf5-full; only.</para>
      </note>
 
      <para><filename>krusader_<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</filename> is the supposed name of the krusader tarball (it will be probably a different one ;)</para>

<para>You can download the latest available &krusader;-2.x <link linkend="krusader_git">from Git</link>.</para>


<sect2>
<title>Krusader dependencies</title>
<para>The next packages are needed to run the Krusader binary.</para>
<para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>c libraries</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>plasma-framework libraries (&kde; Frameworks core libraries and binaries for &kf5-full; applications)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libqt5dbus5 (&Qt; 5 D-Bus module)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libqt5xml5 (&Qt; 5 &XML; module)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libqt5core5 (&Qt; 5 core module)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libqt5gui5 (&Qt; 5 &GUI; module)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libqt5printsupport5 (&Qt; 5 print support module)</para>
      </listitem>
<!--      <listitem>
        <para>libkjsembed1  (Embedded JavaScript library)
              (for the optional Javascripting function in Krusader)</para>
	    </listitem>  disabled due to KrJS does not compile (cannot find kjsembed from kdelibs -->
    </itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Suggested packages</title>
<para>These packages are optional but they will make &krusader; much more powerful and useful.</para>

<para>The next packages are the names that Debian/Ubuntu uses, other Linux
distros will probably use similar names.</para>
<para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>arj: archiver for .arj files </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>ark: graphical archiving tool by KDE</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>bzip2: high-quality block-sorting file compressor - utilities</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>cpio: GNU cpio -- a program to manage archives of files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kdiff3: compares and merges 2 or 3 files or directories</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR kompare: a KDE GUI for viewing differences between files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR xxdiff: a graphical file and directories comparison and merge tool</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kmail: KDE Email client</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>okteta: KDE hex editor</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>konsole: X terminal emulator by KDE </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>krename: Powerful batch renamer by KDE</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>lha: lzh archiver</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>md5deep: versatile file checksum creator and verifier</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>cfv: versatile file checksum creator and verifier</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>p7zip: 7zr file archiver with high compression ratio</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>rpm: Red Hat package manager</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>unace: extract, test and view .ace archives</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>unrar: Unarchiver for .rar files (non-free version)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR unrar-free: Unarchiver for .rar files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR rar: Archiver for .rar files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>unzip: De-archiver for .zip files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>zip: Archiver for .zip files</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>Compilation requirements</title>
<para>The next packages are needed for compiling Krusader,
if you only run a Krusader binary you do not need these packages.</para>
<para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>gcc (The GNU C compiler)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>g++ (The GNU C++ compiler)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>cmake (A cross-platform, open-source make system)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>zlib1g-dev: (library for implementing the deflate compression method found in gzip and PKZIP)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>gettext (contains msgfmt)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>plasma-framework-dev (installs many development libraries for &kf5;)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kio-dev</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>libkf5archive-dev</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libkf5parts-dev</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libkf5wallet-dev</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libkf5xmlgui-dev</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kdoctools-dev</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>



</sect1>

<sect1 id="kde_lin_install">
   <title>Installing on &Linux; and &BSD; platforms</title>

      <note>
       <para>Please read the 
       <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader?path=INSTALL"><filename>INSTALL</filename></ulink> 
        file of the Krusader sources, it contains all latest installation instructions.</para>
      </note>


<para><command>-DQT_INCLUDES=/usr/share/qt5/include</command> is the location of the &Qt; 5 includes</para>

<para><command>-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/</command> is the location where Krusader will be 
      installed with the make command.</para>
 
<para>Another example is: <command>-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PRFIX=/opt/krusader</command>
      to install the compiled Krusader in an other directory to not overwrite
      the Krusader version installed by your package manager.</para>
  <note>
      <para>
          Please use <command>sudo</command> instead of <command>su -c</command> if you are using Ubuntu-based systems.
      </para>
  </note>
<para>
    <screen>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>tar -xzvf</command> <option>krusader-2.5.0.tar.gz</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cd</command> <option>krusader</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>mkdir</command> <option>build</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cd</command> <option>build</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cmake</command> <option>-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/ -DQT_INCLUDES=/usr/share/qt5/include ..</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su</command> <option>-c "make install"</option></userinput>
     </screen>
</para>

<para>Uninstall</para>
<para>
    <screen>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c "make uninstall"</command></userinput>
     </screen>
</para>

</sect1>
<sect1 id="kde4_mac_install">
   <title>Installing on the &MacOS;-X platform</title>

      <note>
       <para>Please read the 
       <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader?path=INSTALL"><filename>INSTALL</filename></ulink> 
        file of the Krusader sources, it contains all latest installation instructions.</para>
      </note>

<para>With &kde;-4 Krusader runs natively on &MacOS;-X, using its Aqua user interface (No more X11 needed!).</para>

<para>With the help of <ulink url="http://www.macports.org/">macports.org</ulink> , &krusader; is ported to &MacOS;-X,
      the port was maintained by <ulink url="http://www.krusader.org/developers.php">Jonas B&auml;hr</ulink>.
      A <ulink url="http://trac.macports.org/ticket/17731">portfile</ulink> is provided.</para>

<para>
    <screen>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>sudo port install krusader</command></userinput>
     </screen>
</para>      
      
</sect1>
<!--
<sect1 id="kde4_win_install">
   <title>Installing on the &Windows; platform</title>

      <note>
       <para>Please read the 
       <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/krusader?path=INSTALL"><filename>INSTALL</filename></ulink> 
        file of the Krusader sources, it contains all latest installation instructions.</para>
      </note>

<para>Tested on &Windows; XP, not yet tested on &Windows; Vista but it should work.</para>

<para>With Krusader-2.0.0 it is the first time that Krusader compiles on &Windows;,
      some work needs to be done to make Krusader more usable on the &Windows; platform.
      All feedback is welcome!</para>

<para>Krusader can be compiled and installed on &Windows; with the 
      <ulink url="http://winkde.org/pub/kde/ports/win32/installer/">Win-KDE installer</ulink>. 
      See also <ulink url="http://windows.kde.org/">windows.kde.org</ulink> for more information.</para>
              
    </sect1>-->



  <sect1 id="starting-krusader">
    <title>Starting &krusader;</title>
    <para>Type 
    <userinput>
      <command>krusader</command>
    </userinput> (lower case) at a command prompt. You can create
    shortcut on your desktop or create an entry in the
    menu. Read the previous page and the
    <link linkend="faq">FAQ</link> if &krusader; does not
    start.</para>
    <para>When &krusader; is started from the
    command line, various options can be specified to modify its
    behavior.</para>
    <screen>
    	<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command></userinput>
    </screen>
    <note>
      <para>Do not worry about the messages you get in the
      &konsole;. These messages are log messages that
      can be used for debugging &krusader;.</para>
    </note>
    <para>You can also use 
    <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
    <keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> to open the Run Command dialog
    box, type 
    <userinput>
      <command>krusader</command>
    </userinput> (lower case) and press &Enter; or click
    on the 
    <guibutton>Run</guibutton> button.</para>
    <para>If &krusader; is installed by an RPM or DEB
    package then usually &krusader; can be started from
    the &kmenu;. Click on the
    application launcher button and choose 
    <emphasis role="bold">
      <menuchoice>
        <guimenuitem>Applications</guimenuitem>
        <guimenuitem>Utilities</guimenuitem>
        <guimenuitem>&krusader;</guimenuitem>
      </menuchoice>
    </emphasis>.</para>
    <variablelist>
      <title>Command-line options:</title>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--left</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;path&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>start left panel at
            &lt;path&gt;</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--right</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;path&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>start right panel at
            &lt;path&gt;</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--left</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt;,&lt;path3&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>start left panel at
            &lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt;,&lt;path3&gt;,
            with tabs.</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--profile</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;panel-profile&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>load a 
            <link linkend="panel_profiles">panel-profile</link> on
            startup (this overrides the 
            <link linkend="konfig-startup">default startup
            profile</link>).</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
    <para>Examples: 
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--left=&lt;path&gt; --right=&lt;path&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--left=/mnt/cdrom --right=ftp://downloads@myserver.net</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--left=&lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt; --right=&lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt;,&lt;path3&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--profile &lt;panel-profile&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--profile ftp-managment</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    </para>
    <para>The standard &Qt; and &kf5; command-line options are available.
    </para>
    <variablelist>
      <title>Other command-line options:</title>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--author</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>Show the authors names</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--license</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>Show license information</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="configuration">
    <title>Configuring &krusader;</title>
    <para>When you run &krusader; for the first time,
    the &krusader; configuration module 
    <link linkend="konfigurator">Konfigurator</link> will show up
    and allow you to configure &krusader; as well as
    detect installed packers and tools. You can always run
    Konfigurator again from the
    <link linkend="settings-menu">Settings menu</link>.</para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="default-file-manager">
    <title>Making &krusader; the default file
    manager</title>
    <para>To make &krusader; the default file manager in
    Gnome, <ulink url="http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/nonautilusplease">click here</ulink> for more information.
    </para>
    <para>To make &krusader; the default file manager in
    &plasma;, <ulink url="http://groups.google.com/group/krusader-devel/browse_thread/thread/8209d785d3ba0ac6">click here</ulink> for more information. 
    </para>
  </sect1>
</chapter>

