.TH krusader 1 "22 August 2005" Linux "Krusader Manpage"
.SH "NAME"
krusader \- advanced twin-panel file manager and ftp client for KDE
.SH "USAGE"
.B krusader [Qt-options] [KDE-options] [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Krusader is an advanced twin panel (commander style)
file manager for KDE and other desktops in the *nix world,
similar to Midnight or Total Commander.
It provides all the file management features you could possibly want.
Plus: extensive archive handling,
mounted filesystem support, FTP, advanced search module,
viewer/editor, directory synchronisation, file content comparisons,
powerful batch renaming and much much more.
It supports the following archive formats: tar, zip, bzip2,
gzip, rar, ace, arj, lha and rpm
and can handle other KIOSlaves such as smb:// or fish://
It is (almost) completely customizable, very user friendly,
fast and looks great on your desktop! :-)
You should give it a try.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B --left <\fIpath\fR>
start left panel at <path>
.TP
.B --right <\fIpath\fR>
start right panel at <path>
.TP
.B --profile <\fIpanel-profile\fR>
Load <panel-profile> on startup 
.TP
.B --help
show the general options
.TP
.B --help-all
show the all the options
.TP
.B --author
show the authors
.TP
.B -v, --version
show the version
.TP
.B --license
show the license
.SH "[Qt-options]"
"$ krusader --help-qt"  shows the all the Qt-options
.SH "[KDE-options]"
"$ krusader --help-kde" shows the all the KDE-options
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.B $ krusader --left=/mnt/cdrom --right=ftp://downloads@myserver.net
.TP
.B $ krusader --profile=ftp_managment
.SH "FILES"
Configuration files:

.I ~/.kde/share/config/krusaderrc

.I ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krbookmarks.xml

.I $KDEDIR/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc or

.I ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc

.SH "PLATFORMS"
Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris, MacOS-X

.I KDE 2.x

krusader v1.01   stable but there are no planned changes.

.I KDE 3.x

The latest version of Krusader can be found at the Krusader website.

Note:

Krusader v1.01 needs KDElibs 2.x.x

Krusader v1.02 - 1.40 needs KDElibs 3.x.x

Krusader 1.40 prefers >= 3.2.x (otherwise not all features will be available)

Krusader v1.50 - v1.60.0 needs KDElibs >= 3.3.x

.SH "FEATURES"

Configurable toolbar and key-bindings.

Full Ace, Arj, Bzip2, Gzip, lha, Tar, Rpm, Rar, Lha, Zip support.

Advanced search module that can search in archives.

Directory comparison and filtering.

Quick view and Tree panels.

Ftp/Samba client with a connection manager with SFTP/SCP support.

Opens a terminal to the browsed path.

Optional embedded console.

Bookmark module that takes local files and remote ones.

Easy editing of file permissions.

Shows the effective permissions for the current user.

Calculates occupied space by marked files and folders.

Internal viewer and configurable Editor.

Offers a command line capable of running something in a terminal with a single click of a button.

Packs (or unpacks) files into a single archive of your choice, without typing a single command.

Tests the integrity of archives.

Compare files by content (via external diff program such as KDiff)

Fully mimetype-aware (with or without magic!).

Mountmanager

Krename support, a very powerfull external batch renamer for KDE

Tabbed Browsing.

Root mode.

File splitter & Combine files.

Synchronize Directories.

Sync-browsing.

UserActions.

Panel profiles.

PopUp Panel.

User actions.

Inport/export keybindings

Inport/export Color Schemes

.SH "LICENSE"
Krusader is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public

License version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.

See the built-in help for details on the License and the lack of warranty.

The copyright for the project and its name are still held by Shie Erlich and Rafi Yanai.
.SH "i18n"
Krusader is translated into many languages.

http://krusader.sourceforge.net/i18n.php

Read the Krusader translation howto if you want translate Krusader in your native language.
.SH "FAQ"
The latest version of the KRUSADER FAQ can be found at the Krusader website.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The Krusader Handbook, at the krusader help menu.

The Krusader homepage on the World Wide Web:

http://krusader.sourceforge.net
.fi
.SH "AUTHORS"

Krusader is developed by a dedicated team of individuals, known as the Krusader Krew.

Shie Erlich, author [erlich {*} users {.} sourceforge {.} net]

Rafi Yanai, author [yanai {*} users {.} sourceforge {.} net]

Dirk Eschler, Webmaster and i18n coordinator [deschler {*} users {.} sourceforge {.} net]

Csaba Karai, Developer [ckarai {*} users {.} sourceforge {.} net]

Heiner Eichmann, Developer [h {.} eichmann {*} gmx.de]

Jonas Baëhr, Developer [jonas.baehr {*} web.de]

Frank Schoolmeesters, Documentation & Marketing Coordinator [frank_schoolmeesters {*} yahoo {.} com]

Richard Holt, Documentation & Proofing [richard {.} holt {*} gmail {.} com]

Matej Urbancic, Marketing & Product Research [matej {*} amis {.} net]

The project is written using KDevelop and QT Designer.

.SH "BUGS"
See the TODO file in the distribution for information on what remains to be done.

.B Notice: if you've got bugs to report, please use the krusader website, and

.B not KDE's bugzilla (bugs.kde.org).

For fixes, patches and comments use the krusader forum or mail to

[krusader {*} users {.} sourceforge {.} net].

Krusader Krew
