<sect1 id="archives">
<title>Archive Handling</title>
<indexterm><primary>Archives</primary></indexterm>

<sect2 id="browsing-archives">
<title>Browsing Archives</title>
<para>The &vfs_lnk; allows to browse archives as it was a directory.
      &krusader; supports currently the following archives types: 
      ace, arj, bzip2, deb, gzip, iso, lha, rar, rpm, tar, zip and 7-zip and
      supports the next passworded archives: arj, ace, rar and zip.
      Passwords can be stored in &kwallet;.
      Please note that the archive support first needs to be properly 
      <link linkend="konfig-archives">configured</link> in Konfigurator.
      To open the archive use &Enter;, (double-)click or the <keycap>Right Arrow</keycap>.
      &krusader; supports also <emphasis role="bold">hidden archives</emphasis>, 
      these are renamed archives with a *wrong* extension.
      &eg; &openoffice; uses zip archives with the next extensions: odt, sxw and odw.
      &Enter; will open the &openoffice; document and the <keycap>Right Arrow</keycap> will open the archive.
      An other example is J2EE where the rar extension means a zip archive.
      &krusader; will open with <keycap>Right Arrow</keycap> the archive even if it has an other mime type,
      since &krusader; autodetects the supported archive types.
      Please note that browsing archives has a few limitations:
<itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>Not all functions are supported by all archive types.
                    (&ie;: you can't delete files in ace or rar archives)</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para>The permissions you have inside the archive are the same as the permissions you have
                    for the archive.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para>The command line (if visible) will not follow you inside the archive but will point
                    to the archive directory.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para>Before any action is performed on files/directories inside the archive they
                    must be extracted. The archive will be repacked when you leave it or when &krusader;
                    detects that extracted files have changed.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para>Packing and un-packing are "blocking operations" that display a Progress Dialog.
                    Though, this might change in the future since we are planning to create
                    more background operations.</para>
    </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="unpacking-archives">
<title>Unpack Files</title>
<para>There are 2 ways to extract files from archives:</para>

<para>If you want to unpack a whole archive(s), browse to the archive location, select the archive(s)
      and select <emphasis role="bold"><menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu>
      <guimenuitem>Unpack</guimenuitem></menuchoice></emphasis> or
      <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>.
      &krusader; will ask you where to put the extracted
      files, the default location is the inactive panel directory. If you don't cancel the operation,
      &krusader; will try to unpack all the selected files in the inactive panel.</para>

<para>If you only want to extract part of the archive, then
      <link linkend="browsing-archives">browse</link> the archive and copy the files
      you want to extract to their new location just as you would copy "normal" files.
      Note that unpacking from a browsed archive takes more time (file by file unpack) compared to
      unpacking a whole archive with the first method.</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="pack-archive">
<title>Packing Files</title>
<para>If you want to create a new archive, begin by selecting the elements you want to
      pack in the active panel and select <emphasis role="bold"><menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu>
      <guimenuitem>Pack</guimenuitem></menuchoice></emphasis> or
      <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>.
      A dialog will pop-up, prompting you to select the archive name and location, you select the packer by
      selecting one of the <link linkend="konfig-archives">supported filename extensions</link>.</para>

<para>To add files to an existing archives, open the archive in one panel and the files to be copied in the
      other panel, then simply copy the files into the archive
      in exactly the same way you copy files into a "normal" directory.</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="test-archive">
<title>Testing Archives</title>
<para>Krusader will not handle corrupted archives since it may result in data loss.
      If you receive an error message when opening an archive, or if you suspect that there something
      wrong with the archive you should test it before use. 
      To test an archive, browse (navigate) to the archive location,
      select the archive. Next select <emphasis role="bold"><menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu>
      <guimenuitem>Test Archive</guimenuitem></menuchoice></emphasis> or
      <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>E</keycap></keycombo>.
      &krusader; will test the archive file and inform you if the archive passed or failed the file integrity test.</para>
</sect2>


</sect1>
