<chapter id="faq">
  <!-- **********************************************************************
                               faq.docbook
                          ++++++++++++++++++++
  copyright            : (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007
                          Rafi Yanai, Shie Erlich, Frank Schoolmeesters
                          & the Krusader Krew
  e-mail               : krusader@users.sourceforge.net
  web site             : http://www.krusader.org
  description          : a Krusader Documentation File

***************************************************************************
* Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this            *
* document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,         *
* Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software         *
* Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and        *
* no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is available on the         *
* GNU site http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html or by writing to:         *
* Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,    *
* MA 02111-1307, USA.                                                     *
*********************************************************************** -->
  <title>Frequently Asked Questions (&FAQ;)</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>FAQ</primary>
  </indexterm>
  <!--  &reporting.bugs;
  &updating.documentation; -->
  <para>If you have problems with &krusader; please
  check the &install-proc-lnk;, as your problem may be
  caused by a bad installation.</para>
  <para>The &FAQ; is divided into three sections: 
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
      <link linkend="faq_installation">Installation
      &FAQ;</link> (this page)</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
      <link linkend="faq_usage">Usage
      &FAQ;</link> (issues with running/using
      &krusader;)</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
      <link linkend="faq_general">General
      &FAQ;</link> (bug reports, forum, mailing list,
      ...)</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>If you feel that a &FAQ; is missing or
  if something is not clear to you, please 
  <link linkend="editors_note">let us know</link>.</para>
  <sect1 id="faq_installation">
    <title>Installation &FAQ;</title>
    <qandaset>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_kdelibs">
          <para>Does &krusader; need &kde; to
          run?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>
          <emphasis>No, &krusader; does not need the
          &kde; window manager</emphasis> to run on your
          computer but &krusader;'s natural environment
          is &kde;, because it relies on services
          provided by the &kde; base libraries. Only
          some shared libraries are needed &eg;
          &kde; libraries, &Qt; libraries,
          &etc; This means that &krusader;
          runs on &gnome-url;,
          &afterstep-url;, &xfce-url; and
          other window managers provided the approriate libraries
          are installed on your computer. All this is not a problem
          since the apt-get world can resolve these dependencies
          instantly.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para>You do not need to switch to the &kde;
          window manager to use &krusader;; you can
          still use &gnome-url;,
          &afterstep-url;, &xfce-url; or
          another window manager. However, the configuration of the
          &krusader; fonts and some behavior is done by
          running 
          <command>Kcontrol</command>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para>A lot depends on what you want to do with
          &krusader;. You should know that
          &krusader; uses the &kde;
          &kioslaves1-url; to access remote file
          systems, and support for only a limited number of file
          system types are shipped with &kdelibs-url;,
          most of the &kioslaves2-url; are bundled with
          &kdebase-url; (including fish, sftp and tar).
          However, if you want the property-dialog to show
          EXIF-data for .jpeg's, you need &kde;graphics.
          If you want ID3-infos, you need
          &kde;multimedia, and so on.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para>To summarize, if you want a working
          &krusader; - install &kde;libs. If
          you want a functional &krusader; then you need
          &kde;libs + &kde;base. For maximum
          functionality, &krusader; needs all of the
          &kde; package libraries, but the
          &kde; window manager is optional.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_libs">
          <para>Which libraries does &krusader; need to
          run?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>For running &krusader; (&eg;
          when you have installed &krusader; with a
          binary RPM) you need less libraries than if you compile
          &krusader; from source. &eg; you
          only need the C-compliler &gcc; when you
          compile &krusader; from source (see the next
          question).</para>
          <para>Here is a list of the required shared libraries
          when you run &krusader;:</para>
          <para>
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>kdelibs (for the required &kde;
              version see the &install-proc-lnk;)</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>libacl1 libart-2.0 libattr1 libaudio2 libc6
              libfam0 libfontconfig1</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>libfreetype6 libgcc1 libgcc2 libice6 libidn11
              libjpeg62 libkjsembed1</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>libkonq4 libpcre3 libpng12 libqt3-mt libsm6
              libstdc++6 libunwind7 libx11-6</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>libxcursor1 libxext6 libxft2 libxi6
              libxinerama1 libxrandr2 libxrender1 libxt6
              zlib1g</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>If you need more info please take a look
          at the &deb-requirements-url; .</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_missing_libs">
          <para>I have followed all the steps but 
          <command>configure</command>complains about missing libs
          or headers. What do I need to do?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Install the missing packages.</para>
          <para>Here is a list of the required packages to compile
          &krusader; from source:</para>
          <para>
            <itemizedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para>gcc-cpp gcc-c++ glibc libgcc1 (other
                compilers may work but haven't been tested)</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>autoconf automake XFree</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>libqt3 libqt-devel</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>kdelibs kdelibs-devel</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>libjpeg62 libjpeg-devel libpng3
                libmng1</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>fam libfam-devel</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>zlib1 arts libart_lgpl2 libstdc++5
                libpcre0</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>libkjsembed, if you use the
                &javascript-console-lnk;, often found in
                a package called KDEbindings(-devel) and
                libkonq-dev for the &konqueror;
                right-click menu entries.</para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </para>
          <para>Most RPM-based distributions separate the headers
          from the libs. The headers are needed to compile
          &krusader;. Look for packages in the form
          foo-devel-*.rpm (&eg; 
          <filename>kdelibs-devel-foo.i586.rpm</filename>) or
          foo-dev-*.deb for &debian; based
          distributions. These are usually included with your
          distribution. 
          <tip>
            <para>If you ca not find the needed package, use
            &rpmfind-url; and click 'missing lib or
            header' in the search line. Or use 
            <command>apt-cache search 
            <replaceable>foo</replaceable></command> to find the
            corresponding package for &debian; based
            distributions.</para>
          </tip></para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_64bit">
          <para>How do I compile &krusader; when I'm
          using a 64 bit processor ?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>As far as we know, there are no issues.
          &krusader; is also available on 
          <ulink url="http://packages.debian.org/unstable/utils/krusader">
          many other architectures</ulink>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_rpm-source">
          <para>I have downloaded the Source RPM 
          <filename>krusader-x.xx.dist.src.rpm</filename>, what to
          do now?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>
            <orderedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para>Check the ownership and the permissions on 
                <filename class="directory">
                /usr/src/RPM/</filename> and all recursive
                directories that your normal user can
                read-write-execute in these directories.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>To produce the binary RPM for your computer,
                do this: 
                <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>--rebuild</option> <replaceable>&lt;/path/to/rpmfile/&gt; krusader-x.xx.dist.src.rpm</replaceable></userinput></screen>
                </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>If all 
                <link linkend="faqi_missing_libs">
                dependencies</link> are OK, a binary RPM 
                <filename>krusader-x.xx.dist.rpm</filename> will be
                created at 
                <filename class="directory">
                /usr/src/RPM/RPMS/i586</filename> (replace i586 with
                your architecture).</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Test the binary RPM for errors before
                installing: 
                <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>-i --test</option> <replaceable>&lt;/path/to/rpmfile&gt; krusader-x.xx.dist.rpm</replaceable></userinput></screen>
                If the prompt returns without any message,
                then everything is OK.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Install the binary RPM as usual, for example:
                <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c 'rpm</command> <option>-Uvh</option> <replaceable>&lt;/path/to/rpmfile&gt; krusader-x.xx.dist.rpm</replaceable>'</userinput></screen> 
                You will be asked to enter your root
                password.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Now you can 
                <link linkend="starting-krusader">
                start</link> &krusader;.</para>
              </listitem>
            </orderedlist>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <tip>
            <para>For more information about RPM, visit
            &rpm-org-url; and read the
            &rpm-guide-url; by Eric
            Foster-Johnson.</para>
          </tip>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_rpm-fails">
          <para>I'm trying to install binary foo (RPM or DEB
          package), but it fails. What's wrong?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Since we only prepare (and use) the source, we have
          no way of knowing this. Did you test the binary RPM
          before installing? 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>-i --test</option> <replaceable>&lt;/path/to/rpmfile&gt; krusader-x.xx.dist.rpm</replaceable></userinput></screen> 
          If the prompt returns without any message, then
          everything is OK. RPM's downloaded from our website are
          usually provided by &krusader; users. Visit
          your distro website and search for an updated RPM.</para>
          <para>If the RPM is not OK, try to find another package
          at &Linux; software archives such as
          &freshmeat-url; or &kde-apps-url;.
          If you still can't find the appropriate package for your
          &Linux; distribution, we recommend searching
          for it with &rpmfind-url; or
          &rpmpbone-url;.</para>
          <para>In general, a package for an older version of your
          distrubution or even for another distribution might work
          on your computer (&eg; FC RPM's often work on
          Mdk and RH, and vice versa), but it is always the best
          that you install only RPM's that exactly match your
          distribution. If you can't find a package that matches
          your distribution version, architecture or distribution,
          then use a source RPM. When you use a source RPM, the
          Krusader sources will be built, on your computer,
          guaranteeing a suitable binary RPM for your specific
          distribution and architecture. In addition, this method
          results in maximum system speed, since the resulting
          binary is customized for your computer. Please read the
          previous question, it explains how to install a source
          RPM. The best solution is explained in the next
          question.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_rpm-notfound">
          <para>I can't find an RPM or DEB package for
          &krusader;, what to do?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Check if your distribution provides
          &krusader;, if it doesn't then contact your
          distribution creator and ask them to include
          &krusader;!</para>
          <para>Did you take a look at the &URL;'s on
          the &install-proc-lnk; page? If you have and
          found nothing, you can always compile
          &krusader; from source. Even if you feel you
          haven't got the necessary skills, you will probably
          succeed in compiling &krusader;: we provide a
          very detailed installation procedure. This HowTo enables
          newcomers to compile &krusader; from source,
          even if they have never done a compilation from source
          before, just follow the instructions carefully. Feel free
          to post a &help-request-lnk; if you encounter
          problems.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_krusaderui_rc">
          <para>I've installed &krusader;, but when I
          start, only the 
          <guimenu>"Help"</guimenu> menu appears. Why?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>In this case only the 
          <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu is visible and all other menu
          items like &eg; 
          <guimenu>File</guimenu> and 
          <guimenu>Select</guimenu> are missing. This is because
          some distributions put the 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> file in the wrong
          directory. To solve the problem, just copy the 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> file from the package 
          <filename>
          krusader_kde3/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename> to 
          <filename>
          $KDEDIR/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename> and 
          <filename>
          ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename> and
          re-run &krusader;. If you have compiled
          &krusader; from sources this is often caused
          if the &kdeqtdir-lnk; environment variables
          are not correctly set. The result is that the 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> file is installed in
          the wrong directory. Please read the following question,
          as well.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_missing_menus">
          <para>Some new menu items are missing after updating
          &krusader;, what's wrong?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>The 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> file is stored in 
          <filename>
          $KDEDIR/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename>.
          When you change the 
          <guilabel>"Toolbar"</guilabel>, &kde; makes a
          copy of that file in the home directory at 
          <filename>
          ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename>. If
          Krusader was previously installed on your computer, and
          you install a newer &krusader; version the 
          <filename>
          ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename> file
          must be replaced with the newer version. Note: this will
          also reset all your changes on toolbars and
          shortcuts!</para>
          <para>The first line of 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> contains the version
          number. After installing a newer &krusader;
          version, &kde; will automatically replace the
          old 
          <filename>
          ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename> with
          the newer version when starting the new
          &krusader; for the first time
          (&kde; will detect the newer version number in
          the first line).</para>
          <para>If you install a CVS or beta version and
          &krusader; was already installed on your
          computer then you should delete the 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> file from your home
          directory to activate the new menu entries 
          <prompt>$</prompt>
          <userinput>
            <command>rm</command>
            <option>
            ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</option>
          </userinput></para>
          <para>If the 
          <filename>
          ~/.kde/share/apps/krusader/krusaderui.rc</filename> file
          is older, then the new menu elements will not be shown.
          Read the previous question for information on how to
          update the 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> file. If 
          <filename>krusaderui.rc</filename> is missing or in a
          wrong directory, only the 
          <guimenu>"Help"</guimenu> menu appears, please read the
          previous question.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_libfam_la">
          <para>When I run 
          <command>make</command>, it complains about 
          <filename>libfam.la</filename>, what's wrong?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>The 
          <command>./configure</command> script does not check for
          the presence of 
          <filename>libfam.la</filename>, and 
          <command>make</command> needs 
          <filename>libfam.la</filename> to compile
          &krusader;. If you know how this can be
          solved, please let us know. Install 
          <filename>libfam0-devel-foo.rpm</filename>. Note: when
          you install &Mandrake;-&Linux; 9.2
          with the default settings, this package is not installed.
          If you need more information take a look at
          &missing-libs-lnk;.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_deb-qt">
          <para>&debian; complains about &Qt;
          when running 
          <command>./configure</command>, what's wrong?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>This problem occurs when you use &gcc;
          2.95, you need to install &gcc; 3.2 (or
          higher). You also need to set the enviroment variables
          "CC, CPP and CXX" before running the 
          <command>./configure</command> script. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>export</command> CC=<replaceable>/usr/bin/gcc-3.2</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>export</command> CXX=<replaceable>/usr/bin/g++-3.2</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>export</command> CPP=<replaceable>/usr/bin/cpp-3.2</replaceable></userinput>
          </screen> 
          For more information please take a look
          &debian-qt-a-url; and at the
          &debian-qt-b-url; on how to build a
          &Qt;/&kde;3 application on
          &debian;.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_nvidia">
          <para>I have a 
          <filename>libGLcore.so.1</filename> compile error after
          using the &nvidia; installer, what to
          do?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>This problem occurs when you use the
          &nvidia; installer and not the official
          &nvidia; packages of your distribution.
          &krusader; is based on &Qt; which
          can be linked against the X OpenGL libraries. As a result
          &krusader; may look for OpenGL as well. The
          problem is that the &nvidia; installer (prior
          to version 7xxx) doesn't perform it's task properly: it
          replaces the OpenGL header files (which get included into
          &krusader;) but doesn't set the libGL links
          correctly. The best solution is to use the
          &nvidia; packages provided by your distributor
          or a new &nvidia; installer, the current
          version at the moment of writing is 7114. If, for some
          reason, you must use an old &nvidia; driver,
          one solution is the following hack, the exact commands
          depend on the distribution used and the version of the
          &nvidia; driver (6111 in this example), but it
          should read something like this: 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGLcore.so.0</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGLcore.so</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGLcore.so.1.0.0</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGLcore.so.0.0.0</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGL.so</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGL.so.0</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGL.so.0.0.0</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGL.so.1</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>libGLcore.so.1.0.6111 libGL.so.1.0.0</replaceable></userinput>
          <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>ln</command> -s <replaceable>/usr/lib/libGLU.la /usr/X11R6/lib/libGLU.la</replaceable></userinput>
          </screen></para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_gcc4">
          <para>Why &krusader;-1.60.x does not compile
          with gcc4?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Because &krusader;-1.60.x was not gcc4
          compatible, it first needs some patches: 
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>add 'class ListPanelFunc;' in
              krusader/Panel/listpanel.h</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>add 'class KMountManGUI;' in
              krusader/MountMan/kmountman.h</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>add 'class KrDetailedViewItem;' in
              krusader/Panel/krdetailedview.h</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>More information can be found in our 
          <ulink url="http://www.krusader.org/phpBB/viewtopic.php?t=1328">
          forum</ulink>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_help_request">
          <para>I am having trouble compiling and installing
          &krusader;, how do I send a help
          request?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Please read our detailed 
          <link linkend="compilation">installation
          procedure</link> and the &faq-lnk;. If you
          can't find a solution to your problem then feel free to
          post a 
          <emphasis role="bold">help request</emphasis> at our
          &krusader; forum or use the
          &kruusers-url; mailing list. But before
          posting a help request, please try the following: 
          <orderedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>Use the &kruforumsearch-url;
              function on the &forum-lnk;, your problem
              might be solved or discussed already.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>If you can't find a solution, please make a
              note of the following issues: 
              <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                  <para>the &krusader; version
                  used</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para>the &Linux; distribution +
                  version used</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para>a good description of the problem</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>Without this information, it is very
              difficult for us to help you. 
              <note>
                <para>If you give us the error messages
                (&eg; 
                <command>make</command> error messages) please start
                with the FIRST error message, all the error
                messages which follow the first error message are
                consequences and not the cause of your
                problem.</para>
              </note></para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Send out your help request.</para>
            </listitem>
          </orderedlist></para>
          <para>Thank you for your co-operation!</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_rpm-build">
          <para>How can I build an RPM package for
          &krusader;?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>If you have experience with compiling from source,
          you will probably be able to build a
          &krusader; RPM too. Information about RPM can
          be found at &rpm-org-url; and in the
          &rpm-guide-url; by Eric Foster-Johnson. The
          following is the short procedure howto on building an
          RPM.</para>
          <warning>
            <para>NEVER build RPMs when logged in as root. Mistakes
            in building packages (&eg; a bad 
            <filename>krusader.spec</filename> file) can do serious
            damage to your system when logged in as root.</para>
          </warning>
          <para>
            <orderedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para>Compile &krusader; from source to
                check that the compilation works fine.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Check the ownership and the permissions on 
                <filename class="directory">
                /usr/src/RPM/</filename> and all recursive
                directories that your normal user can
                read-write-execute in these directories.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Copy 
                <filename>kusader-1.xx.tar.gz</filename> to 
                <filename class="directory">
                /usr/scr/RPM/SOURCE</filename></para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Copy 
                <filename>kusader.spec</filename> to 
                <filename class="directory">
                /usr/scr/RPM/SPECS</filename> Tip: the latest 
                <filename>kusader.spec</filename> can be found in
                CVS.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Edit 
                <filename>kusader.spec</filename> and add your name,
                your e-mail address, the rpm name, ... Other
                changes may be needed if 
                <command>rpmbuild</command> fails.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>Build the binary and the source RPM with: 
                <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>rpmbuild</command> <option>-ba</option> <replaceable>/usr/scr/RPM/SPECS/krusader.spec</replaceable></userinput></screen> 
                If everything went OK you will have a
                binary RPM in 
                <filename class="directory">
                /usr/src/RPM/RPMS/i586</filename> (depending on your
                architecture) and a source RPM in 
                <filename class="directory">
                /usr/src/RPM/SRPMS/</filename> &eg; 
                <filename>
                krusader-1.70-beta1.suse10.i586.rpm</filename> and 
                <filename>
                krusader-1.70-beta1.suse10.src.rpm</filename></para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>If the build is not OK you will receive an
                error message during the rpmbuild process, try to
                fix it and run 
                <command>rpmbuild</command> again.</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>And finally: 
                <link linkend="faqi_rpm-source">test</link> the RPM
                before sending it in.</para>
              </listitem>
            </orderedlist>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqi_cvs_verion">
          <para>Why does &krusader;-cvs show an old
          version number in the about box?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Because we only change the version number just
          before we do a new release. &krusader;-cvs
          will show an older version number, so ignore the version
          number and check the download date. We simply haven't yet
          decided what the next version number will be.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
    </qandaset>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="faq_usage">
    <title>Usage &FAQ;</title>
    <qandaset>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_qt355">
          <para>&krusader; keeps crashing, why?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>We've been receiving a lot of emails and bug
          reports (December 2005) regarding random crashes,
          especially during file operations such as copy, move,
          etc. 
          <emphasis role="bold">These crashes are related to
          &Qt; 3.3.5 and NOT
          &krusader;.</emphasis> It seems that
          &Qt; 3.3.5 introduced a serious bug which is
          currently (December 2005) causing random crashes in many
          &kde; applications including
          &konqueror;. You can use Google to find out
          more. As far as we know, &debian;-Sid and
          &SuSE; already posted new &Qt;
          binaries that fix the problem, and &gentoo;
          has masked &Qt; 3.3.5 completely. As for now,
          you either need &Qt; 3.3.4 or a fixed
          &Qt; 3.3.5 or a higer version, depending on
          your distribution. More information is available on our 
          <ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/phpBB/viewtopic.php?t=1407">
          website</ulink>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_supermount">
          <para>When I try to mount/unmount my cdrom/floppy,
          &krusader; reports something about a
          supermount, what's this about?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Supermount is a daemon which handles the
          mounting/unmounting of removable filesystems for you.
          Just insert a floppy, and do 
          <userinput>
            <command>cd</command>
            <option>
              <replaceable>/mnt/floppy</replaceable>
            </option>
          </userinput>supermount will do the mount for you
          automatically and transparently. Usually this works fine.
          However, supermount misleads the system into thinking
          that the 
          <hardware>floppy/cdrom</hardware> is mounted at all times!
          This creates some problems for &krusader;, as
          it cannot really know when the floppy or CD has been
          removed because the system information is not correctly
          updated by supermount - is there really a 
          <hardware>floppy</hardware> in the 
          <hardware>drive</hardware>? Of course, this can be
          solved, but as for now, we don't consider it a
          priority.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_dead_mountpoint">
          <para>Why does &krusader; freeze or hang on a
          dead mountpoint?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>When &krusader; is &eg;
          browsing an NFS share and the NFS server goes down,
          &krusader; will freeze. This
          &krusader; (and all other open internal
          viewers/editors) freeze is fatal, and can only be
          corrected with the 
          <command>kill -9</command>. We have no solution for this.
          This is an issue not confined to file managers, or even
          the &Linux; OS! The problem is that you "hang"
          on the first access to the dead share - so there is no
          way around it, no check to avoid it, even 
          <command>ls</command> will freeze. Just trying to read
          something - anything - is enough to get you stuck. The
          one and only way around this architectural problem is
          using a multi-threaded design - this way if we get stuck,
          we don't hang the entire application event loop, but we
          don't think that the time is right for adding threads, we
          are not sure that *all* the &kde; systems out
          there are using &Qt;-mt (the multi threaded
          version of the &Qt; library), and the Krusader
          Krew may not be the right people to address this major
          issue in any case; so currently this is just a bug we
          have to learn to live with.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_resize">
          <para>When I try to resize &krusader; to make
          it smaller, I discover that I can't resize it below a
          certain size. Why?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>See the 
          <guibutton>F1, F2</guibutton> (&etc;) buttons?
          They are not allowing &krusader; to downsize
          as they have a minimum size. Just disable them 
          <emphasis role="bold">
            <menuchoice>
              <guimenu>View</guimenu>
              <guimenuitem>Show FN Keys Bar</guimenuitem>
            </menuchoice>
          </emphasis>and you'll be able to resize
          &krusader; to your liking. Since version 1.51
          we have improved this greatly: when downsizing the
          buttons will look like 'F5 ..py'. When the button faces
          are too small to read a tooltip will give the complete
          text. The minimum width is 45 pixels for each
          button.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_refresh">
          <para>When I perform some file operations,
          &krusader;'s panel doesn't refresh / I'm using
          &krusader; with fam installed, but updates to
          the panel are not shown. Why?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>The bad news is that we're not sure why, but it
          seems that 
          <command>fam</command> (file alteration monitor) sometimes
          refuses to work. We are looking into this problem to make
          sure it is not 
          <emphasis>our</emphasis> problem. We've tried the same
          source code on two different Gentoo installations: one
          worked, the other did not. The good news is that if you
          disable 
          <application>fam</application>, &krusader;
          will automatically revert to its internal update
          mechanism (which is less efficient, but works) without
          needing to recompile. You can disable 
          <application>fam</application> with: 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c 'fam -l'</command></userinput></screen>
          Look at the manpages for more information about 
          <application>fam</application>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <!-- Thanks to Karai Csaba -->
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_samba_codepage">
          <para>
          <application>Samba</application> ISO 8859-x codepage /
          What to do if &krusader; does not read shared
          directories containing special international
          characters?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>&krusader; does not handle (yet) 
          <application>Samba</application> ISO 8859-x codepages, if
          you use a codepage different than 8859-1 you will have to
          do a manual configuration. Create or modify the file: 
          <filename>~/.smb/smb.conf</filename>
          <programlisting>[global] 
          workgroup = MyWorkGroup (ex. WORKGROUP) 
          client code page = MyCodePage (ex. 852)
          character set = MyCharSet (ex. ISO8859-2)
          </programlisting>
          Unfortunately 
          <application>kcontrol</application> (&kde;
          3.1.1) fails to configure smb.conf properly, so this must
          be done manually with a text editor.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <!-- Thanks to Karai Csaba -->
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_krarc_protocol">
          <para>&krusader; reports "krarc:... protocol
          not supported" error at opening an archive file, what to
          do?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Install the krarc slave properly:</para>
          <para>Copy the 
          <filename>kio_krarc.so</filename>, 
          <filename>kio_krarc.la</filename> files into 
          <filename class="directory">
          $KDEDIR/lib/kde3</filename></para>
          <para>Copy the 
          <filename>krarc.protocol</filename> file into 
          <filename class="directory">
          $KDEDIR/share/services</filename></para>
          <para>or the directory where the KIO slaves are placed in
          your &Linux; distribution.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_krarc_support">
          <para>I get the error message "Protocol not supported by
          Krusader: "krarc:/path/to/foo-archive", when I try to
          open foo-Archive, what to do?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>The icons, kio_slaves and documentation must be
          installed in the correct places in the &kde;
          directory tree. The 
          <filename>kio_krarc.*</filename> files must be in the same
          directory with the other KIO slaves. Try this: locate 
          <filename>kio_tar.*</filename> and copy/link the 
          <filename>kio_krarc.*</filename> files to the same
          location. Don't forget to run 
          <command># ldconfig</command> on this directory when
          you're done. For more information click 
          <ulink url="www.krusader.org/phpBB/viewtopic.php?t=991">
          here</ulink>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      
<qandaentry>
  <question id="faqu_external_tool">
  <para>What todo if an extenal tool doesn't seem to work?</para>
  </question>
  <answer>
  <para>Krusader uses several programs as <link linkend="konfig-dependencies">external tools</link>, 
        and sometimes they appear not to work.
        
       Open a terminal and check if tool foo is installed.
       <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>foo</command></userinput></screen> 

       Check if tool foo is properly configured in the &konfigdependencie-lnk;.

       For Archiving tools: autodetect the archives again with the <guibutton>Auto Configure</guibutton> button
       in the <link linkend="konfig-archives">Konfigurator archive page</link>. 
       
       Check the &konfigprotocol-lnk;
   
     If it doesn't work, backup your <filename>~/.kde/share/config/krusaderrc</filename> configuration file and remove it from this location,
     Restart Krusader, Krusader will now start the first start configuration wizard, follow these guidelines.
   
    </para>
  <para> </para> <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
  </answer>
</qandaentry>
      
      
      <!-- Thanks to Dirk Eschler -->
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_ftp_firewall">
          <para>Why do I have trouble with my &FTP;
          connection?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>This problem often occurs when you are behind a
          firewall or proxy. Open 
          <emphasis role="bold">
            <menuchoice>
              <guimenu>KDE Control Center</guimenu>
              <guimenuitem>Network</guimenuitem>
              <guimenuitem>Preferences</guimenuitem>
            </menuchoice>
          </emphasis>, 
          <guilabel>"Enable Passive Mode (PASV)"</guilabel> has to
          be turned on or off, depending on it's current setting.
          Now try your &FTP; session again to see if it
          works. Also, make sure you have no other &FTP;
          sessions open (using web browsers, etc.), they can cause
          complications. More information can be found in
          &active-passive-ftp-url;.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <!-- Thanks to Karai Csaba -->
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_ftp_http_proxy">
          <para>I get 
          <errorcode>"FTP protocol not supported by
          &krusader;"</errorcode> error when trying to
          open a remote &FTP; directory, what to
          do?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>The reason for this error is that '&FTP;
          via &HTTP; proxy' feature is not yet supported
          by &krusader;. This error may be caused by a
          misconfiguration of the proxy settings in
          &kcontrolcenter;. Modify the proxy settings to
          not use &HTTP; proxy and &FTP; will
          work.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>

      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_no_part">
          <para>How don't add ".part" suffix when copying files via ftp?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>When uploading files a <filename>.part</filename> suffix is added to the filename,
                once the upload is complete the filename is renamed automagically 
                to remove the <filename>.part</filename> suffix.
                This works great but sometimes some ftp-servers don't allow a rename operation.
                You can solve this by unchecking the checkbox 
                <guilabel>Mark partially uploaded files</guilabel> in &kde;'s control center. 
                The checkbox is located at 
                <menuchoice>
                 <guimenu>Internet and Network</guimenu>
                 <guimenuitem>Connection Preferences</guimenuitem>
                </menuchoice>.</para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>

      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_close_connection">
          <para>How can I close a remote connection
          (&eg; a FTP connection)?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>It's explained in the 
          <link linkend="remote-connections">remote connections
          chapter</link>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_media_protocol">
          <para>I am experiencing problems with the media://
          protocol, why?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>At the moment of writing the media:// protocol is
          instable, we need to wait until the &kde; team
          corrects it, every other protocol works properly with
          &krusader;, only media fails. More information
          regarding this issue is available in 
          <ulink url="http://www.krusader.org/phpBB/viewtopic.php?t=1357">
          our forum</ulink>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <!-- Thanks to thepieman at the Krusader Forum -->
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_sound">
          <para>How can I disable the default sounds,
          &eg; when I do a delete action ?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Those are the default &kde; System
          sounds, and not related to &krusader;. If you
          want to disable them globally open your &kde;
          &kcontrolcenter; (
          <application>kcontrol</application>): 
          <emphasis role="bold">
            <menuchoice>
              <guimenu>KDE Control Center</guimenu>
              <guimenuitem>Sound &amp;
              Multimedia</guimenuitem>
              <guimenuitem>System Notifications</guimenuitem>
            </menuchoice>
          </emphasis>, 
          <guilabel>Event Source: "KDE System
          Notifications"</guilabel> and uncheck sound items you
          don't like.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_remoteMan">
          <para>Where is RemoteMan, the remote connection manager
          ?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>RemoteMan has been replaced by our Bookmark Manager
          since Krusader 1.25-beta1. The Bookmark Manager handles
          local files and 
          <link linkend="remote-connections">remote
          &URL;'s</link> the same way. RemoteMan was left
          as a selection until &krusader;-1.51 to allow
          an easier transition and give you a chance to move your
          &bookmarks-lnk;. RemoteMan was disabled, as
          announced, in &krusader;-1.60.</para>
          <para>&URL; transition procedure: 
          <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
            <listitem>
              <para>install &krusader;-1.51</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>open the RemoteMan and connect to an
              &FTP;</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>once inside, bookmark the current location,
              select a name and save.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>do this for all your connections, all the
              &bookmarks-lnk; are now stored in 
              <filename>krbookmarks.xml</filename></para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>install &krusader;-1.60, it will use
              <filename>krbookmarks.xml</filename> or import it if
              needed.</para>
            </listitem>
          </orderedlist></para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_mimetypemagic_archives">
          <para>Why doesn't mimetype magic sometimes work inside
          archives?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>When you enter an archive and press 
          <keycap>F3</keycap> to view a file that has no known
          extension, &eg; 
          <filename>README, INSTALL</filename> &etc;. And
          if the viewer opens in hex-mode instead of the usual
          mode, than you need to configure: 
          <emphasis role="bold">
            <menuchoice>
              <guimenu>KDE Control Center</guimenu>
              <guimenuitem>KDE components</guimenuitem>
              <guimenuitem>File Associations</guimenuitem>
              <guimenuitem>Application</guimenuitem>
              <guimenuitem>octet-stream</guimenuitem>
            </menuchoice>
          </emphasis>, 
          <guilabel>binary viewer</guilabel> needs to be
          removed.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>

      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_konfigurator">
          <para>Where is Konfigurator, do i need to install the &kde; Desktop Enviroment to use it?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para><link linkend="konfigurator">Konfigurator</link> is &krusader;s configuration module,
                when you have installed &krusader; than you have also Konfigurator.
                For some reason some people think it's an other &kde; application, but it is not, so
                you don't need to install the &kde; Desktop Enviroment to use Konfigurator.
                When runnig &krusader;, use 
                <menuchoice>
                 <guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
                 <guimenuitem>Configure &krusader;</guimenuitem>
                </menuchoice>, and it will start 
                <link linkend="konfigurator">Konfigurator</link>. 
                Please read the manual, &krusader; has many many configuration options, 
                a lot of things can be customized to your needs with <link linkend="konfigurator">Konfigurator</link>. 
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>

      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_equal_lookandfeel">
          <para>How can I set the look &amp; feel of 2
          different users to be the same?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Presuming that the current setup is the good
          configuration, you can copy the configuration to the
          other user. 
          <screen><prompt>#</prompt> <userinput><command>cp ~/.kde/share/config/krusaderrc /home/foo_user/.kde/share/config</command></userinput></screen>
          And when the other user is Root use: 
          <screen><prompt>#</prompt> <userinput><command>cp ~/.kde/share/config/krusaderrc /root/.kde/share/config</command></userinput></screen>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>

      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_save_last_location">
          <para>Why doesn't "save last location" work?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Unfortunately the 1.70.x version contains a bug.
          The tabs are not saved if a "Panels Save Settings=Tabs"
          item is present in the configuration files. The fix is
          easy: 
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>open and edit 
              <filename>
              ~/.kde/share/config/krusaderrc</filename></para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>remove the "Panels Save Settings" item</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>and it'll work with the
          &lt;Last Session&gt; feature in
          Konfigurator. More info can be found in 
          <ulink url="http://www.krusader.org/phpBB/viewtopic.php?t=1357">
          our forum</ulink>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>

      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqu_handbook">
          <para>Why doesn't the handbook work?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>This error will happen on &debian; (or
          &debian; based) distro with the
          krusader_1.51-1_i386.deb package. You will see the next
          error message if you try to open the handbook: "The
          requested help file could not be found. Check that you
          have installed the documentation." To fix it go to 
          <filename>
          /usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/krusader/</filename>, you will
          see the 
          <filename>foo.docbook.gz</filename> files. Now, you need
          to extract all these files with root privileges
          ("File-&gt;Unpack" with &krusader;)
          to create 
          <filename>foo.docbook</filename> files. Now the handbook
          will work. This error is fixed in the
          krusader_1.60.0-1_i386.deb package and higher
          versions.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>

    </qandaset>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="faq_general">
    <title>General &FAQ;</title>
    <qandaset>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_wish">
          <para>How can I report a wish, a suggestion, or a
          comment?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>An open source project's greatest strength is
          derived from getting user feedback. That is why we love
          to hear what you have to say. Your "gripes" are our
          instructions. After about 6 months, programmers can no
          longer see their own mistakes. It's natural. We want the
          ideas, qritiques, and feedback because we all want to
          make &krusader; the best and most useful file
          manager available anywhere.</para>
          <para>The most convenient way to contact us is to use the
          &forum-lnk;, or the krusader-users
          &mailing-lists-url;. For information on what
          remains to be done look at the
          &todoforum-url;. Adding ToDo items into the
          &todoforum-url; is for developers only, but
          feel free to post to the &featureforum-url;
          for things that aren't on the &todoforum-url;,
          but should be. If you have a nice feature request, the
          &krusader; Krew will add your request to the
          &todoforum-url;. We review and discuss every
          submission. For more information how the forum works
          click 
          <link linkend="faqg_kru-forum">here</link>.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_patch">
          <para>How can I send a patch?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>It's not easy to write patch guidelines, but here
          are some. 
          <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
            <listitem>
              <para>Patches, new code or new features are always
              welcome!</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Focus only on one problem at a time, so the
              developers can easily understand you, and commit your patch
              it works.</para>              
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Preferrably, you can start a discussion
              with the developers on the krusader-devel
              &mailing-lists-url; or on the
              &forum-lnk;. Unfortunatly, we can't apply
              a patch if the patch is in conflict with the "general
              design" of the &krusader; code (read for more
              instructions in this FAQ).
              Please send only one change request per mail, so
              that the discussion is easier to follow. The
              modifications should be committed step by step,
              checking each line.
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
             <para>Submit your patch files into our &patch-tracker-url;,
              so that all patch proposals stay organised and don't get lost,
              tar.gz archives or diffs are usually ok.
              Do not copy changes into a mail. Most mailers will change the
              white spaces, so that the diff will not apply or the
              code snipped does not diff. In the past, patch mails went lost or disorganized in many many mails,
              so please use the &patch-tracker-url;, thanks! 
              </para> 
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>Use portable solutions, &krusader;
              should run on: 
              <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                  <para>All POSIX
                  (&Linux;/BSD/&UNIX;-like
                  OSes), &Solaris;.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para>All BSD Platforms
                  (&freebsd;/&netbsd;/&openbsd;/&MacOS;).</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para>&kde; 3.3- &kde;
                  3.5 and even on GNOME with
                  &kde;libs (for krusader-2.x &kde; 4) .</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para>GCC 2.95 - GCC 4.1</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>Architecture changes are made by the
              team only.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>A final note: always keep in mind a patch might
              be rejected. Either it has side effects, which we
              could not fix or it contradicts with the idea behind
              the patched module. In this sense, a software project
              differs from, let's say a wiki: a software project
              has to have someone to make all the final decisions.
              Otherwise the software will not work. Furthermore:
              keep in mind that the examination of patches might
              take time, as we all have private lives.</para>
            </listitem>
          </orderedlist></para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_bug_report">
          <para>How can I report a bug?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Bugs?!?!? Well, ok.... We have an online Bug
          Tracking System.</para>
          <para>Using the online bug-tracker helps us have a clear
          and orderly way to know how many bugs are open, bug
          priority and follow-ups. It saves us from browsing
          through the entire &krusader; forum, searching
          for yesterdays bug. Please use this system.</para>
          <para>Before reporting a bug, please read the following: 
          <orderedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>Use the &forum-lnk;'s
              &kruforumsearch-url; function , your bug
              might be already solved . Please DO NOT post new bugs
              to the &bugforum-url; (except if you are
              not sure that you have found a bug). We use it for
              bug discussions.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
              <emphasis role="bold">Check</emphasis> if the bug is
              already posted in the &online-buglist-url;
              of the Bug Tracking System.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>If you can't find this bug mentioned, please 
              <emphasis role="bold">submit</emphasis> it into the
              bug tracker by clicking the 
              <guibutton>Submit New</guibutton> button in the
              bug-tracker window. Please submit the following
              issues: the &krusader; version used, the
              &Linux; distribution + version used,
              processor type, and as good a description of the
              problem as you can manage.</para>
            </listitem>
          </orderedlist></para>
          <para>Thank you for your co-operation!</para>
          <note>
            <para>If possible, try to do the same operation with
            &konqueror; or another &kde;
            application. If you encounter the same problem then it
            is possibly a &kioslaves1-url; or
            &kde; (kdelibs) bug, and not a
            &krusader; bug. &krusader; uses
            the &kde; libraries and the
            &kioslaves2-url; for many operations. In
            some cases you can encounter problems if your
            distribution is incorrectly configured, please test it
            first as explained above.</para>
          </note>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <note>
            <para>
              <remark>If you've got bugs to report please do not
              use &kde;'s bugzilla http://bugs.kde.org/,
              &kde;'s Bug Tracking System. Report
              &krusader; bugs directly to us.</remark>
            </para>
          </note>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      
<qandaentry>
  <question id="faqg_valgrint">
  <para>How can i send good debug or crash reports?</para>
  </question>
  <answer>
  <para>Usually binary packages that are been used by your distribution do not contain debug information.
        Since we usually only develop and fix &krusader;-cvs, compile &krusader;-cvs in debugmode and install it, than check if the bug still exist.
        <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command> <option>--enable-debug=full</option></userinput></screen>  

        Install <ulink url="http://valgrind.org">valgrind</ulink>, a suite of tools for debugging and profiling &Linux; programs.

        Run Valgrind/&krusader;
        <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>valgrind</command> <option>--tool=memcheck</option> <replaceable>{foo_path}/krusader</replaceable></userinput></screen>
        
        The valgrind tool will write to stdout, what really happens.
        If you could send these informations before the crash, it's almost sure, that we may fix or tell you what to do.
  </para>
  <para> </para> <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
  </answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
  <question id="faqg_crashhandler">
  <para>What todo if the KDEcrashhandler sends no usefull backtrace information?</para>
  </question>
  <answer>
  <para>Usually binary packages that are been used by your distribution do not contain debug information.
        Since we usually only develop and fix &krusader;-cvs, compile &krusader;-cvs in debugmode and install it, than check if the bug still exist.
        <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command> <option>--enable-debug=full</option></userinput></screen> 
 
       If the KDEKrashhandler still doesn't provide usefull backtrace information, than sometimes a coredump will give better information. 
       Run Krusader, with disabled crashhandler.
       <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <option>--nocrashhandler</option></userinput></screen>

       On a crash you will get a <filename>.core</filename> file, usually in your home directory.

       Run <ulink url="http://sourceware.org/gdb/">gdb</ulink>, the GNU Project Debugger
       
       <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>gdb</command> <option>-c</option> <replaceable>corefile krusader</replaceable></userinput></screen>
       
       Now type <command>bt</command> to get the backtrace and type <command>q</command> to quit gdb.

       Often the best debug results will be given when using the valgrint tool.
  </para>
  <para> </para> <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
  </answer>
</qandaentry>
      
<qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_mail_list">
          <para>Does &krusader; have a mailing
          list?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Yes, currently we have 6
          &mailing-lists-url;. No spam, no bother, just
          &krusader;. Feel free to subscribe and
          unsubscribe.</para>
          <para>Tip. our mailing lists can be browsed online or
          read with a newsreader, so that you don't even need to
          subscribe to follow the action on the mailing lists. 
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>&krunews-url; is a very low volume
              list, used for newsletters and announcements of new
              versions or critical bugfixes. The news can also be
              read online at &krulatestnews-url; and in
              the &newsforum-url; which are basically
              the same but displayed in another format.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&krudevel-url; is the developer
              mailing list (read-only). If you want to follow the
              development of &krusader; on the cutting
              edge, this is the list to follow.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&kruusers-url; is the
              &krusader; users mailing list. Here you
              can ask for help and talk with the
              &krusader; users and developers.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&krui18n-url; is the translations
              mailing list.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&krudoc-url; is the documentation
              mailing list.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&krucommits-url; (read-only): when
              the &krusader; Krew commits code into CVS,
              it will be reported in this mailing list. Want to
              keep track? Waiting for a certain feature/bugfix?
              Follow &krusader;'s development
              here.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist></para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_newsfeeds">
          <para>Does &krusader; provide
          newsfeeds?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Yes, we do. Several newsfeeds in various formats
          are available. &filereleasefeed-url;,
          &forumfeed-url;, &krunewsfeed-url;,
          &krudevelfeed-url; and even 
          <ulink url="http://dir.gmane.org/gmane.comp.kde.krusader.devel">
          additional feeds</ulink> by gmane.org.
          &kruusersfeed-url;,
          &krui18nfeed-url;,
          &krudocfeed-url;.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_irc">
          <para>Does &krusader; have an IRC
          channel?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Yes, we do. Feel free to talk to the
          &krusader; Krew and fellow-users via
          &freenode-url; servers. The server is 
          <emphasis>irc.freenode.org</emphasis>, the channel is 
          <emphasis>#krusader</emphasis>. Everyone is
          welcome.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_kru-forum">
          <para>How does the &krusader; forum
          work?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>In the spirit of freedom of speech, everything that
          is &krusader; related can be discussed in our
          forum. It does not matter if you are a newcomer or an
          advanced user, everyone is welcome. An open source
          project's greatest strength is derived from getting user
          feedback. That is why we love to hear what you have to
          say. With your feedback we can make &krusader;
          better and better; otherwise, we are not aware of issues
          and ideas you may have. But please remember the
          following, so that we can maintain some order in the
          chaos.</para>
          <para>If the 
          <link linkend="index">Documentation</link>,
          &faq-lnk;, &kruforum-url; and
          &krudevel-url; (please use the search function
          ) can't help you, do not hesitate to post on our forum.
          The &krusader; Krew or the
          &krusader; community is always available to
          help you.</para>
          <para>Please use the &kruforumsearch-url;
          function of the &kruforum-url;, your issue may
          have been previously discussed (this allows us to
          minimize the double/triple/... postings). If your issue
          has already been discussed in the past there is a great
          chance that you will have an instant solution to your
          problem. If the issue is currently being discussed, you
          can join in the discussion. Some questions are asked over
          and over again, that's why we have created this
          &faq-lnk;. This allows us to spend more time
          developing &krusader;.</para>
          <para>The &kruforum-url; is split into seven
          sections: 
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>&newsforum-url;: all the latest
              news.</para>
            </listitem>
             <listitem>
              <para>&newsletterforum-url;: all newsletters.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&bugforum-url;: discussions about
              bugs, please DO NOT use the forum for
              &faqbugreports-lnk; (except if you are
              unsure if you have found a bug).</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&featureforum-url;: discussions
              about new features for future &krusader;
              versions.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&todoforum-url; here you will find
              the list of the planned features. Registered users
              will be able to VOTE and COMMENT on the TODO items.
              Here you get the chance to push your favourite
              features (+3) and still prefer certain features over
              others (+1), if you don't care about a feature just
              simply don't vote on that feature. Unregistered users
              may only browse the &todoforum-url;. The
              &todoranking-url; contains the results
              based on the votes. 
              <link linkend="faqg_patch">Adding ToDo items</link> or
              removing ToDo items which have been implemented will
              be done by the &krusader; Krew.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&useractionsforum-url;: discussions
              about &useractions-lnk;. Posting your own
              User Actions is greatly appreciated. We plan to
              include the best ones in the next
              &krusader; releases.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>&krugenforum-url;: everything that
              is &krusader; related and doesn't belong
              in the other forums.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist></para>
          <para>Thank you for your co-operation!</para>
          <para>We provide RSS feeds for our forums. You don't have
          to check for new posts all the time, instead the news
          will come to you! To make use of them, simply point your
          RSS aggregator to &rss-url;.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_i18n">
          <para>How can I translate &krusader; into my
          native language?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Please read the &i18n-page-url;. It's
          not difficult to translate! Most anyone can do it, it
          just takes some time.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_support">
          <para>How can I support &krusader;?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>You can 
          <link linkend="help_krusader">
          support</link> &krusader; in many different
          ways. Please send us 
          <link linkend="faqg_wish">feedback</link>,
          &faqbugreports-lnk;, patches, 
          <link linkend="help_krusader">donations</link>,
          translations, ...</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_mac">
          <para>Is there a &MacOS; X port?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>Yes, there is &MacOS; X port, but you
          will not have the all the power you would have on
          &Linux;. Please read the 
          <link linkend="mac-port">&MacOS; X port
          section</link> for more information. A recommended native
          file manager for &MacOS; is
          &disk-order-url; (shareware).</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_win">
          <para>Is there a &Windows; port?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>No, but this might change in the future. Please 
          <link linkend="help_krusader">help us</link> with this
          project, contributions are greatly appreciated. A
          recommended native file manager for &Windows;
          is &tcmd-url; (shareware).</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_mcstyle">
          <para>Why is &konqueror; in "midnight
          commander style" not an 
          <link linkend="gloss-ofm">OFM</link>?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>The two panels and a commandline are available, all
          the other stuff like 
          <link linkend="features">OFM features</link> and the 
          <link linkend="gloss-ofm">OFM</link> interaction with the
          user is missing from this profile.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
      <qandaentry>
        <question id="faqg_why_ofm">
          <para>Why should I use an 
          <link linkend="gloss-ofm">OFM</link>?</para>
        </question>
        <answer>
          <para>An &ofm-url; is much faster than a one
          panel filemanager and faster than the command line. If
          you would like to know 
          <ulink url="http://www.softpedia.com/reviews/linux/Krusader-Review-18193.shtml">
          how &krusader; feels</ulink>, there is only
          one way to discover: install it on your computer and use
          it for a while. If you prefer to waste time and lose
          productivity, continue to use one panel filemanagers
          which are based on &Windows; Explorer. Matej
          Urban&ccaron;i&ccaron; has written
          a 
          <ulink url="http://murban.blogspot.com/2006/01/krusader-and-konqueror-twin-versus-one.html">
          blog</ulink>on why 
          <link linkend="gloss-ofm">OFM</link> is better than a one
          panel filemanager.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </answer>
      </qandaentry>
    </qandaset>
  </sect1>
  <!--
  <qandaentry>
      <question><para> </para></question>
      <answer>
        <para> </para>
        <para> </para> // Empty line to make it more readable
      </answer>
  </qandaentry>
-->
</chapter>
