<!-- **********************************************************************
                               help.docbook
                           +++++++++++++++++++
  copyright            : (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006
                          Rafi Yanai, Shie Erlich, Frank Schoolmeesters
                          & the Krusader Krew
  e-mail               : krusader@users.sourceforge.net
  web site             : http://www.krusader.org
  description          : a Krusader Documentation File

***************************************************************************
* Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this            *
* document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,         *
* Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software         *
* Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and        *
* no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is available on the         *
* GNU site http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html or by writing to:         *
* Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,    *
* MA 02111-1307, USA.                                                     *
*********************************************************************** -->

<preface id="help_krusader">
<title>Help &krusader;</title>
<indexterm><primary>Help</primary></indexterm> 

<para>Here is your opportunity to &contribute_url; to the &krusader; project.
      There are things that need to be done, but can't be done by us.
      If you feel you can help, don't hesitate to contact us, every OpenSource can use some help.
      Please also check the &contribute_url; page on our website for more recent information.
      Thanks!</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">Documentation</emphasis></para>
<para>Help is needed (we are looking for documentation writers) for keeping the &krusader;
      documentation up to date. The draft explanation of new features is done by the
      developers on the krusader-devel mailinglist, but we need editors to add this 
      information in the handbook. By playing with the new features these editors
      can give valuable information to the developers for making the new features even better!</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">&krusader; Extensions</emphasis></para>
<para>Please upload your favorite extensions at &kde_files_url;,
      so that they become available for the &krusader; community.
      Maybe they will be shipped by default with &krusader; at the next release :-))
      It features 
      <ulink url="http://www.kde-files.org/index.php?xcontentmode=660">Keymaps</ulink>, 
      <ulink url="http://www.kde-files.org/index.php?xcontentmode=661">Colormaps</ulink>, 
      <ulink url="http://www.kde-files.org/index.php?xcontentmode=662">User Actions</ulink>, 
      <ulink url="http://www.kde-files.org/index.php?xcontentmode=663">JavaScript Extensions</ulink>.
</para>
<para>User Actions can be discussed in our &useractionsforum_url;, please join!</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">Spread the Word &krusader;</emphasis></para>
<para>If you like &krusader;, 
      <ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/spread.php">let people know!</ulink> 
      Write articles and reviews for internet or print publications. 
      Encourage your friends to give &krusader; a try. 
      Participate in forums to help others in the community.</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">GUI Translations</emphasis></para>
<para>&krusader; is available in many languages, but usually several translations do need an update 
      and new untranslated languages are always welcome, please read the &i18n_page_url; .
      Even when there is already a translator for your native language, it is always helpful to
      have a second or third translator &eg; for proofreading the translation.
      Sometimes, the regular translator is not available when a translation update is needed (studies, holyday, ...).
      Please contact the translator for your native language; he will appreciate very much that you will
      offer some help. Any translation (even partial translations) are accepted by the &krusader;-Krew at
      any time (feature freeze or not).</para>

<para><emphasis role="bold">Documentation Translations</emphasis></para>
<para>This documentation is translatable, if you are interested to translate this documentation please contact Frank.</para>

<para><emphasis role="bold">OpenUsability</emphasis></para>
<para>Using a program, understanding its interface and getting information out 
      is something that should always be clear in every application, no matter 
      how advanced your understanding of operating systems is or how deep is 
      your computer literacy. For that reason &krusader; asked to be included 
      in the &openusability_url; project.</para>
<para>This project joins the software developers and usability experts in an 
      attempt to check all parts of a user interface for the inappropriate 
      entries. Its main goal is making user interfaces and dialogs 
      understandable and friendly to every user. We need your, our users 
      comments, to make things better. In case you find a part of the 
      program's interface to be too complicated, please do help us correct 
      it and make it better.
</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">Donations</emphasis></para>
<para>Actually, we hadn't considered donations, until users asked us for a way to &donate_url; to the project.
      &krusader; is and always will be free, in all the terms of the GNU Public License. 
</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">Packagers</emphasis></para>
<para>We are always in need of packagers for different distro rpm's, deb's, etc. 
      All help is welcome.</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">Users feedback for the &krusader; &MacOS; X port</emphasis></para>
<para>Krusader is <link linkend="mac-port">ported</link> to &macosx_download_url; with &fink_url; 
      and &kde;libs, the port is maintained by &bodo_tasche_url;, all feedback is welcome.</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">Porting &krusader; to &Windows;</emphasis></para>
<para>&krusader; is written using &Qt; as well as &kde;libs. 
      As long as &kde;libs does not run on &Windows;, porting &krusader; is not an option. 
      However, we do believe, that once &Qt;4-GPL is released, efforts will be made
      to port &kde;libs to &Windows;, and if that happens, we're in business
      and then we need a maintainer for porting &krusader; to &Windows;.</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">FAQ</emphasis></para>
<para>If you have a question that is missing in the &faq_lnk;, we would like to hear it.</para>


<para><emphasis role="bold">Others</emphasis></para>
<para><link linkend="faqg_wish">Feedback</link>,
<link linkend="faqg_bug_report">Bug reports</link>, patches, &etc; are always welcome!
An open source project's greatest strength is derived from getting user feedback.
</para>


<para>On some websites like &freshmeat_url; or &kde_apps_url; you can give a rate,
      if you like &krusader; go to one of these sites and rate &krusader;, thanks.</para>
      
      
</preface>
