<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [

<!-- **********************************************************************
                              index.docbook
                           +++++++++++++++++++
  copyright            : (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Rafi Yanai, Shie Erlich
                             2003 Frank Schoolmeesters
  e-mail               : krusader@users.sourceforge.net
  web site             : http://krusader.sourceforge.net
  description          : a Krusader Documentation File

***************************************************************************
* Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this            *
* document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,         *
* Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software	  *
* Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and        *
* no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is available on the         *
* GNU site http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html or by writing to:         *
* Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,    *
* MA 02111-1307, USA.                                                     *
*********************************************************************** -->

<!ENTITY krusader 'Krusader'>
<!ENTITY kapp "&krusader;">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
<!ENTITY package "kdeextragear-1">
<!-- internet links -->
<!ENTITY kruforum_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/phpBB/index.php">&krusader; forum</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY kruwebsite_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net">Krusader website</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krudownload_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/index.php?nav=down.php">&krusader;  downloadpage</ulink>'>

  <!ENTITY xxdiff '<ulink url="http://xxdiff.sourceforge.net">xxdiff</ulink>'>

<!ENTITY krename_url '<ulink url="http://www.krename.net"><application>Krename</application></ulink>'>
<!ENTITY freshmeat_url '<ulink url="http://www.freshmeat.net">freshmeat</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY rpmfind_url '<ulink url="http://www.rpmfind.net">Rpmfind</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krucutedge_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/index.php?nav=cvs.php">&krusader;&apos;s Cutting Edge page</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY viewcvs_url '<ulink url="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/krusader">ViewCVS</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY sfmirrors_url '<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=6488">Sourceforge mirrors</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY online_changelog_url '<ulink url="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/krusader/krusader_kde3">online <filename>ChangeLog</filename></ulink>'>
<!ENTITY i18howto_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/phpBB/viewtopic.php?t=389">Krusader translation howto</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY kru2forum_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/phpBB/viewforum.php?f=6">Future Krusader discussion Forum</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY mail_url '<ulink url="mailto:krusader@users.sourceforge.net">mail</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY bugforum_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/phpBB/viewforum.php?f=3">bug discussions forum</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krunews_url '<ulink url="http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/krusader-news">&krusader;-news</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krunewsarch_url '<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum=krusader-news">&krusader;-news Archives</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krulatestnews_url '<ulink url="http://krusader.sourceforge.net/index.php?nav=news.php">latest news</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krucommits_url '<ulink url="http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/krusader-commits">commits mailing list</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krucommitsarch_url '<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum=krusader-commits">&krusader; commits Archives</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY xbel_url '<ulink url="http://grail.sourceforge.net/info/xbel.html">XBEL standard</ulink>'>

<!ENTITY online_todolist_url '<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=560746&amp;group_id=6488&amp;func=browse">online todo list</ulink>'>
 <!ENTITY online_buglist_url '<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=106488&amp;group_id=6488&amp;func=browse">online bug list</ulink>'>
<!ENTITY krufreebsd_port_url '<ulink url="http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/ports.cgi?query=krusader&amp;stype=all">FreeBSD port</ulink>'>

  <!-- bad links, need to be changed -->
  <!ENTITY bad_link1 '<ulink url="http://apps.kde.com">apps.kde.com</ulink>.'>
  <!ENTITY bad_link2 '<ulink url="http://members.home.nl/bruggie/kdiff2">kdiff2</ulink>'>

  <!-- documentation links -->
<!ENTITY konfigstartpg_lnk '<link linkend="konfig-startup">Konfigurator Startup page</link>'>
<!ENTITY konfiglookandfeel_lnk '<link linkend="konfig-looknfeel">Konfigurator look and feel page</link>'>
<!ENTITY konfiggereral_lnk '<link linkend="konfig-general">Konfigurator general page</link>'>
<!ENTITY viewmenu_lnk '<link linkend="view-menu">view menu</link>'>
<!ENTITY markmenu_lnk '<link linkend="mark-menu">mark menu</link>'>
<!ENTITY comparemode_lnk '<link linkend="compare-dir">compare mode</link>'>
<!ENTITY fnkeybar_lnk '<link linkend="fnkeys">FN Keys Bar</link>'>
<!ENTITY toolbar_lnk '<link linkend="toolbar">Toolbar</link>'>
<!ENTITY rootmode_lnk '<link linkend="root-mode">Root mode</link>'>
<!ENTITY settingsmenu_lnk '<link linkend="settings-menu">settings menu</link>'>
<!ENTITY keybindigs_lnk '<link linkend="key_bindings">Key-Bindings</link>'>
<!ENTITY syncdirs_lnk '<link linkend="synchronize_dirs">Synchronize Directories</link>'>
<!ENTITY splitfile_lnk '<link linkend="split">Split file</link>'>
<!ENTITY combinefiles_lnk '<link linkend="combine">Combine files</link>'>
<!ENTITY kdeqtdir_lnk '<link linkend="kde_qt_dir"><envar>KDEDIR</envar> - <envar>QTDIR</envar></link>'>
<!ENTITY usermenu_lnk '<link linkend="user_menu">User menu</link>'>

  <!-- other ENTITIES -->
<!ENTITY keditbookmarks '<application>KeditBookmarks</application>'>
<!ENTITY konqueror '<application>Konqueror</application>'>
<!ENTITY mc '<application>Midnight Commander</application>'>
<!ENTITY nc '<application>Norton Commander</application>'>
<!ENTITY kompare '<application>Kompare</application>'>
<!ENTITY xxdiff '<application>xxdiff</application>'>
<!ENTITY konsole '<application>konsole</application>'>
<!ENTITY disablenote '<note><para>This feature is temporarily disabled and will be rewritten sorry.</para></note>'>
<!ENTITY bugreport_lnk 'Don&apos;t hesitate to send <link linkend="bug_report">Bug reports</link>.'>
<!ENTITY newfeaturenote '<note><para>This is a new feature under development, some descriptions can be obsolete when
                         functionality can change during the development. &bugreport_lnk;</para></note>'>

  <!-- each chapter is in a seperate sgml file -->
	<!ENTITY introduction SYSTEM "introduction.sgml">
	<!ENTITY using-krusader SYSTEM "using-krusader.sgml">
        <!ENTITY commands SYSTEM "commands.sgml">
	<!ENTITY konfigurator SYSTEM "konfigurator.sgml">
	<!ENTITY krusader-tools SYSTEM "krusader-tools.sgml">
	<!ENTITY faq SYSTEM "faq.sgml">
	<!ENTITY credits SYSTEM "credits.sgml">
	<!ENTITY installation SYSTEM "installation.sgml">
]>
<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The Krusader Handbook</title>

	<authorgroup>
	<author>
	<firstname>Shie</firstname>
	<surname>Erlich</surname>
	<affiliation>
	<address><email>manson@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
	</affiliation>
	</author>
	<author>
	<firstname>Rafi</firstname>
	<surname>Yanai</surname>
	<affiliation>
	<address><email>yanai@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
	</affiliation>
	</author>
        <author>
        <firstname>Frank</firstname>
	<surname>Schoolmeesters</surname>
	<affiliation>
	<address><email>codeknight@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
	</affiliation>
	</author>
	</authorgroup>
	<copyright>
	<year>2000</year>
	<year>2001</year>
	<year>2002</year>
        <year>2003</year>
  <holder>Rafi Yanai</holder>
  <holder>Shie Erlich</holder>
	</copyright>
	<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>
	<date>21/12/2003</date>
	<releaseinfo>1.00.05</releaseinfo>

   <abstract>
	<para>
	&krusader; is a twin-panel &Linux; file-manager for the &kde; 3.x desktop environment,
	patterned after old-school managers like &mc; and &nc;.
	It features basically all your file-management needs, plus extensive archive handling,
	mounted filesystems support, built-in advanced search module that can search in archives,
	internal viewer, ftp/samba client and much much more.
	</para>
	<para>Thank you for using &krusader;.</para>
   </abstract>

	<keywordset>
	<keyword>KDE</keyword>
	<keyword>commander</keyword>
	<keyword>krusader</keyword>
        <keyword>samba</keyword>
	<keyword>file</keyword>
	<keyword>manager</keyword>
	<keyword>filemanager</keyword>
	<keyword>twinpanel</keyword>
	<keyword>archive</keyword>
	<keyword>ftp</keyword>
	<keyword>mount</keyword>
	<keyword>midnight</keyword>
	<keyword>handbook</keyword>
	<keyword>documentation</keyword>
	</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<preface><title>Foreword</title>

	<note><para>
	We are busy with updating the The Krusader Handbook.
	At this moment some nice features are not (yet) documented. Check out the &online_changelog_url;
        file or the <filename>ChangeLog</filename> file in the Krusader sources to find out the latest features.
	Please read also the <link linkend="editors_note">Note from the Editors</link>,
	if you have ideas on how to improve the content or like to contribute at the Krusader Handbook.
	</para></note>

	<para>
	Our aim is to give you a tool that does the two most important things:
	manage your files the way you want it, and look great doing it !
	To do just that, Krusader wears a great looking GUI,
	supports drag n' drop and mimetypes (with or without magic!) -
	all you need to feel right at home using it.
	Krusader is packed with cool features, is fast and handles archives transparently,
	basically, all you'd come to expect from tools like &mc;.
	Krusader is open-source, free and is released under the
	<link linkend="credits">GNU Public License (GPL)</link>,
	although we (the developers) still retain the copyright for the project and it's name.
	</para>

	<para>
	The project's target is to create an all-in-one file-manager, which will do all
	the things you'd expect from it, and then some... ;-)
	Since the principle behind Krusader is based on the "old-school" managers
	(&mc;, &nc;),
	virtual filesystems became a main focus.
	Virtual filesystems (VFSs) are an abstracted layer over all kinds of archived
	information (ZIP files, FTP servers, NFS filesystems, SAMBA shares),
	which allows the user to access all the information transparently -
	just like entering a sub-directory.
	Krusader currently supports VFSs for archives (Zip, Tar, GZip, BZip2, Ace, Rar, Arj),
	packages (RPM) and filesystems (FTP, NFS, Samba).
	Krusader also includes a built-in Mount-Manager, which enables you to
	(un)mount filesystems with a single mouse click, and get usage information.
	A Bookmark-Manager Remote-Connections Manager and Advanced Search module are also included.
	We are planning to develop more modules in the near future,
	thereby enhancing Krusader greatly. (eg: samba browser).
	</para>

	<para>We hope you'll enjoy it, we do !</para>

</preface>

<preface id="editors_note">
  <title>Note from the Editors</title>

  <para>As you may notice this handbook is written by various authors.
         Whe have taken much care in insuring technical and vocabulary consistency.</para>

  <para>Most of the authors write in English even though it is not their native language.
        Therefore, you may notice strange sentence constructions.
        Do not hesitate to let us know if something is not clear to you.</para>

  <para>An open source project greatest strength is derived from getting user
         feedback. That's why we'd love to hear what you have to say.
         Documentation contributors are always welcome.
         If you have ideas on how to improve the content,
	 if you like to write about a ondocumented &krusader; feature,
	 if you have remarks or suggestions about the &krusader; Handbook. Please let us know.
         You can contact us even if you find typos!</para>

   <para>Download the latest <link linkend="krusader_cvs">&krusader; CVS build</link>
   to obtain the latest version of the &krusader; handbook.</para>

   <para>For information about the &krusader; documentation project,
          please contact the &krusader; documentation coordinator Frank Schoolmeesters
	  <email>codeknight@users.sourceforge.net</email>.</para>

</preface>

	&introduction;
	&using-krusader;
	&commands;
	&konfigurator;
	&krusader-tools;
	&faq;
	&credits;
 	&installation;
 	&documentation.index;

</book>

