<chapter id="installation">
  <!-- **********************************************************************
                               installation.docbook
                            ++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  copyright            : (C) 2000 - 2008
                          Rafi Yanai, Shie Erlich, Frank Schoolmeesters
                          & the Krusader Krew
  e-mail               : krusader@users.sourceforge.net
  web site             : http://www.krusader.org
  description          : a Krusader Documentation File

***************************************************************************
* Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this            *
* document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,         *
* Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software         *
* Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and        *
* no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is available on the         *
* GNU site http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html or by writing to:         *
* Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,    *
* MA 02111-1307, USA.                                                     *
*********************************************************************** -->
  <title>Installation of Krusader on KDE4.x</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>Installation</primary>
  </indexterm>
  <sect1 id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <para>In order to successfully use the most recent
    &krusader;, you need &kde;libs
    &gt;= 4.x</para>
    <para>Required &kde; version: 
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.01: &kde;
        2</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.02 - 1.40: &kde;
        3.0 - &kde; 3.2</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.40: prefers &kde;
        3.2 (otherwise all features will not be available)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.50 - v1.51: &kde;
        3.2 - &kde; 3.3 (Konfigurator crash on
        &kde; 3.4)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v1.60.0 - v1.70.0:
        &kde; 3.3 - &kde; 3.5</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.70.x: prefers
        &kde; &gt;= 3.4 (otherwise all
        features will not be available)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.80.0: &kde; 3.4 -
        &kde; 3.5</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; 1.90.0: &kde; 3.2 -
        &kde; 3.5</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>&krusader; v2.x.x: &kde; 4.x</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    NOTE: for installation instructions for &krusader;-1.x for &kde; 2 click 
    <link linkend="kde3_install">here</link>.</para>
    <para>Platforms: 
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>All POSIX
        (&Linux;/BSD/&UNIX;-like OSes),
        &Solaris;</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>All BSD Platforms
        (&freebsd;/&netbsd;/&openbsd;/&MacOS;)</para>
      </listitem>
         <listitem>
        <para>&Windows; XP and Vista</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist></para>
    <para>In order to handle archives, checksums and other utilities they must be configured in our
    <link linkend="konfig-dependencies">configuration tool</link>.
    When running &krusader; for the first time the available utilities will be autodetected, and
    a report will be shown in the first lanch wizard. Afterwards additional utilities can be 
    <link linkend="konfig-dependencies">added/removed/changed</link>.</para>
    <para>A package of popular (un)packers, &krusader;
    itself and add-ons can be found on the
    &krudownload-url;.</para>
    <para>For more requirements, see below. Have a look at the
    &faq-lnk; section as well.</para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="getting-krusader">
    <title>Obtaining &krusader;</title>
    <para>The latest information about &krusader; can be
    found on the &kruwebsite-url; .</para>
    <sect2 id="krusader-download">
      <title>&krusader; Downloads</title>
      <para>It is recommended to use the &krusader; package
      that is provided by your distribution.
      &distrowatch-com-url; is a great resource to check
      the availability. If your distribution does not offer
      &krusader;, please contact the creators of your
      distribution and ask them to provide a &krusader;
      package</para>
      <para>The latest version, as well as the older versions, can
      be found on the &krudownload-url; and on the
      &sfmirrors-url;. It contains the source tarballs,
      RPM and DEB packages to whatever distro the
      &krusader;-Krew is using and packages build by
      &krusader; users and third parties.</para>
      <para>Distributions who provide &krusader;: 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>&suse-download-url;</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&fedora-download-url; via
          <command># yum install krusader</command> will do the job,
          thanks to Marcin Garski. &RedHat; RPM packages
          can usually found on the &krudownload-url; or
          at &dag-wiers-download-url; and
          &dries-verachtert-download-url; .</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&debian-download-url;, on our
          &krudownload-url; you might find more recent
          DEB packages. Note: usually &debian; packages
          work also on distributions that are "based on
          &debian;", and some of these provide their own
          (incompatible) packages.
          &ubuntu-kubuntu-download-url;,
          &linspire-freespire-download-url;, &knoppix;
          4.x DVD, &kanotix;, etc.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&mandriva-download-url; via the contrib
          repository 
          <command># urpmi krusader</command> will do the job,
          &gentoo-download-url;,
          &yoper-download-url;.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&archlinux-download-url;,
          &frugalware-linux-download-url;,
          &pclinuxos-download-url;,
          &altlinux-download-url;.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&freebsd-download-url;, the port is
          maintained by 
          <link linkend="credits">Heiner Eichmann</link>.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&netbsd-download-url;,
          &lunarlinux-download-url;
          ,&arklinux;, &openlx;,
          &sourcemage;.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Even more distributions can be found with
          &distrowatch-com-url;.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>Use the installation tools included in your
      distro to install the &krusader; package. You
      might need an internet connection if &krusader; is
      not included on the &CD; or DVD. There are
      probably other distributions which include
      &krusader;. If you know of one, please send
      feedback so that we can include it on the distrolist.</para>
      <para>Others 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>&slackware; tgz binaries can usually be
          found on the &krudownload-url;. You can also
          use &portpkg-url; that contains a
          &kru-slackbuild-url;, 
          <command># portpkg krusader</command> will do the
          job.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>There is a &macosx-port-url; 
          with the help of &fink-url; , the port is
          maintained by <ulink url="http://hritcu.wordpress.com/about/">Catalin Hritcu</ulink>.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist></para>
      <para>Installation via the &klik-protocol-url; 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>&klik-krusader-url; downloads
          &krusader; provided by &debian;
          stable, more information is
          &klik-available-url; .</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&klik-krusader-latest-url; downloads the
          latest &klik-stable-krusader-url; provided by
          the &krusader; Krew.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>&klik-krusader-cvs-url; downloads a
          &klik-cvs-krusader-url; provided by the
          &krusader; Krew.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist></para>
      <para>Search engines 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>You can also find packages on &Linux;
          software archives such as &freshmeat-url; or
          &kde-apps-url; .</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>If you can notfind a package for your distribution,
          we recommend searching for it with
          &rpmfind-url;, &rpmpbone-url; or
          &rpmseek-url;.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>If you enjoy using &krusader;, we
      would appreciate it if you went to one of these sites and
      rated it.</para>
      <para>If you still can not find a package, follow the
      installation procedure on how to compile
      &krusader; from source. This very thorough HowTo
      describes the process in such detail that even newcomers
      should not have any problems.</para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="version_scheme">
      <title>Version Scheme</title>
      <para>A new version scheme has been used since
      &krusader;-1.60.0 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>First digit - the major version</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Second digit(s) - percentage of features completed
          for this major version</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Third digit(s) - bugfixes.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>In essence, releasing
      &krusader;-1.60.0 means that we believe that
      &krusader; is about 60% done with all the features
      we had scheduled for the 1.x.x series. Series 2.x.x will be
      &kde; 4.x releases. Hopefully, it is easy to
      understand.</para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="krusader_stable">
      <title>Stable Version</title>
      <para>
        <filename>krusader-x.xx.tar.gz</filename>
      </para>
      <note>
        <para>&krusader; is released under the
        &gpl-lnk;. This means that THE PROGRAM IS
        PROVIDED "AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, even when it
        is marked as a stable release.</para>
      </note>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="krusader_devel">
    <title>Development Version (beta release)</title>
    <para>
      <filename>krusader-x.xx-betax.tar.gz</filename>
    </para>
    <para>Before every stable release we release at least one
    development version in order to hunt down the bugs.</para>
    <warning>
      <para>These releases are beta releases and will probably
      contain some bugs.</para>
    </warning>&dev-svn-note; 
    <para>The beta release has 3 goals: 
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Apply a feature-freeze until the stable is released,
        only bugs will be fixed. New features have to wait until
        the stable is released.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Obtain feedback from &krusader; users so
        that we can fix the bugs.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Give translators time to update the translations for
        the coming stable. Please read the
        &i18n-page-url;.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist></para></sect2>

<!-- OUTDATED CVS is DEACTIVATED 
    <sect2 id="krusader_cvs">
      <title>CVS Builds</title>
      <para>
        <filename>krusader-cvs-yyyymmdd.tar.gz</filename>
      </para>
      <warning>
        <para>These builds are untested and come without any
        warranty. They may contain bugfixes, new features, or even
        new bugs.</para>
      </warning>
      <para>We provide daily snapshots of &krusader;'s
      CVS version. For those who are interested, the 
      <emphasis role="bold">nightly tarball</emphasis> can be found
      on the &krucutedge-url;. Depending on the stage of
      development, this version will either be stable or unstable.
      Just before a stable release, the CVS version is almost
      stable. After a stable release new features will be committed
      into CVS, which might lead to the appearance of bugs. In some
      rare cases, the build will not even compile if we make a
      mistake. In that case we try to fix the error as soon as
      possible.</para>
      <para>&krusader; provides 2 nightly snapshots: 
      <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
        <listitem>
          <para>
          <filename>krusader-cvs-yyyymmdd.tar.gz</filename>: 
          <command>make -f Makefile.cvs</command> must be run before
          the 
          <command>./configure</command> script is available.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
          <filename>krusader-cvs2-yyyymmdd.tar.gz</filename>: for
          users who have problems with the 
          <command>make -f Makefile.cvs</command> command, we have
          already done this for you and the 
          <command>./configure</command> script is included in the
          tarball. This tarball is a bit bigger than the first
          one.</para>
        </listitem>
      </orderedlist></para>
      <para>
      <emphasis role="bold">check out from CVS</emphasis>.
      &krusader; can be checked out through anonymous
      (pserver) CVS with the following instruction set. The module
      you wish to check out must be specified as the module name.
      When prompted for a password for anonymous, press the
      &Enter; key.</para>
      <para>Currently, there are two module options: 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>krusader_kde2: the &kde;2 branch, stable
          but it is basically v1.01 and there are no planned
          changes</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>krusader_kde3: the &kde;3 branch that we
          currently use</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist></para>
      <para>To check out &krusader; from CVS: 
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cvs</command> <option>-d:pserver:anonymous@krusader.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/krusader login</option></userinput></screen>
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cvs</command> <option>-z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@krusader.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/krusader co krusader_kde3</option></userinput></screen>
      (note: updates from within the modules directory do
      not need the -d parameter)</para>
      <para>If you want to check out a specific version of
      &krusader; from CVS (&eg;
      &krusader;-1.60.0) : 
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cvs</command> <option>-z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@krusader.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/krusader co -rversion_1_60_0 krusader_kde3</option></userinput></screen>
      </para>
      <para>If you want to check out a specific date of
      &krusader; from CVS (&eg;
      &krusader;-2006-10-29) : 
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cvs</command> <option>-z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@krusader.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/krusader co -D2006-10-29 krusader_kde3</option></userinput></screen>
      </para>
      <para>Mostly being &gentoo; users, we provide a
      &gentoo-life-ebuild-url; for all those who want to
      stay on the bleeding edge of file management and do not want
      to miss the advantages of portage. Please take a look at our
      &krucutedge-url; for more installation
      details.</para>
      <para>We also provide &viewcvs-url; to browse the
      CVS repository.</para>
    </sect2>

-->


    <sect2 id="krusader_svn">
      <title>Subversion</title>
      
     <para>&subversion-url; is used for our sourcecode repository.
      It is also possible to &browse-svn-repo-url;.</para>

      <para>Currently, there are four module options: 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>krusader_kde2: the &kde;2 branch, stable
          but it is basically v1.01 and there are no planned
          changes</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>krusader_kde3: the &kde;3 branch, stable
          but it is basically v1.90.0 and there are no planned
          changes</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>krusader_kde4: the &kde;4 branch that we
          currently use</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>trunc: the &kde;4 the development version</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist></para>


      <para>To check out the latest &krusader; 1.x for
      &kde; 3 from SVN:
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>svn</command> <option>co https://krusader.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/krusader/branches/krusader_kde3/</option></userinput></screen>

      To check out the latest &krusader; 2.x for
      &kde; 4 from SVN:
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>svn</command> <option>co https://krusader.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/krusader/branches/krusader_kde4/</option></userinput></screen>

      To check out the latest developement &krusader; 2.x
      for &kde; 4 from SVN:
      <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>svn</command> <option>co http://krusader.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/krusader/trunk/krusader_kde4</option></userinput></screen>
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="krusader_old">
      <title>Older Releases</title>
      <para>If you are looking for older releases we recommend the
      &sfmirrors-url;, available from our project
      page.</para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>

<!-- <chapter id="krusader_kde4_install">
<title>Installation on KDE4.x</title> -->

<sect1 id="compilation">
   <title>Krusader installation instructions on KDE4.x</title>
      <note>
        <para>From version &krusader;-2.0.0 and higher is &kde;-4 only.</para>
      </note>
  
      <note>
        <para>At moment of writing &krusader;-2.0.0 is still under development, though it works :)</para>
      </note>

      <note>
       <para>Even more details about Krusader compilation-installation can be found in the INSTALL 
            file of the Krusader source tarball.</para>
      </note>

<para>"krusader_kde4.tar.gz" is the supposed name of the krusader tarball (it will be probably a different one ;)</para>

<para>You can download the latest available krusader-2.x <link linkend="krusader_svn">from SVN</link>.</para>


<sect2>
<title>Krusader dependencies</title>
<para>The next packages are needed to run the Krusader binary.</para>
<para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>c libraries</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kdelibs5 (KDE4 core libraries and binaries for all KDE4 applications)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libkjsembed1  (Embedded JavaScript library)
              (for the the optional Javascripting function in Krusader)</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Suggested packages</title>
<para>These packages are optional but they will make Krusader much more powerful and useful.</para>

<para>The next packages are the names that Debian/Ubuntu uses, other Linux
distros will probably use similar names.</para>
<para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>arj: archiver for .arj files </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>ark: graphical archiving tool for KDE</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>bzip2: high-quality block-sorting file compressor - utilities</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>cpio: GNU cpio -- a program to manage archives of files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kdebase-bin: core binaries for the KDE base module</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kdebase-bin: core binaries for the KDE base module</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kdiff3: compares and merges 2 or 3 files or directories</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR kompare: a KDE GUI for viewing differences between files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR xxdiff: a graphical file and directories comparison and merge tool</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>khexedit: KDE hex editor</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kmail: KDE Email client</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>khexedit: KDE hex editor</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>konsole: X terminal emulator for KDE </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>krename: Powerful batch renamer for KDE</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>lha: lzh archiver</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>md5deep: versatile file checksum creator and verifier</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>cfv: versatile file checksum creator and verifier</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>p7zip: 7zr file archiver with high compression ratio</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>rpm: Red Hat package manager</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>unace: extract, test and view .ace archives</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>unrar: Unarchiver for .rar files (non-free version)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR unrar-free: Unarchiver for .rar files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>OR rar: Archiver for .rar files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>unzip: De-archiver for .zip files</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>zip: Archiver for .zip files</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2>
<title>Compilation requirements</title>
<para>The next packages are needed for compiling Krusader,
if you only run a Krusader binary you don't need these packages.</para>
<para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>gcc (The GNU C compiler)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>g++ (The GNU C++ compiler)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>cmake (A cross-platform, open-source make system)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>zlib1g-dev: (library for implementing the deflate compression method found in gzip and PKZIP)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>gettext (contains msgfmt)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>kdelibs5-dev (installs many development libraries for KDE4)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>libphonon-dev (libphonon-dev cross-platform multimedia framework development)</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>



</sect1>

<sect1 id="kde4_lin_install">
   <title>Installing on Linux and BSD platforms</title>

<para><command>-DQT_INCLUDES=/usr/share/qt4/include</command> is the location of the QT4 includes</para>

<para><command>-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/</command> is the location where Krusader will be 
      installed with the make command.</para>
 
<para>An other example is: <command>-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PRFIX=/opt/krusader</command>
      to install the compiled Krusader in an other directory to not overwrite
      the Krusader version installed by your package manager.</para>

<para>
    <screen>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>tar -xzvf</command> <option>krusader_kde4.tar.gz</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cd </command> <option>krusader_kde4</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cmake </command> <option>-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/ -DQT_INCLUDES=/usr/share/qt4/include</option></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c </command> <option>"make install"</option></userinput>
     </screen>
</para>

<para>Uninstall</para>
<para>
    <screen>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c "make uninstall"</command></userinput>
     </screen>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="kde4_mac_install">
   <title>Installing on the &MacOS;-X platform</title>

   <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Follow the install guidelines of 
              <ulink url="http://techbase.kde.org/Getting_Started/Build/KDE4/Mac_OS_X">techbase.kde.org</ulink></para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Install the dependencies (including cmake) with  
              <ulink url="http://www.finkproject.org/">Fink</ulink>.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Install the &Qt;-4 binaries available from  
              <ulink url="http://mac.kde.org/">mac.kde.org</ulink></para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Once kdelibs and it's dependencies are up and running.
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Proceed with the step of techbase.kde.org
              "# Setting_Up_Your_Build_Environment" and 
              "# Building_kdelibs" (here replacing "kdelibs" by "Krusader" ;-)).</para>
      </listitem>
   </itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="kde4_win_install">
   <title>Installing on the &Windows; platform</title>

<para>Tested on &Windows; XP, not yet tested on &Windows; Vista but it should work.</para>

<para>It's the first time that Krusader compiles on &Windows;,
      some work needs to be done to make Krusader stable and usable on the &Windows; platform.
      All feedback is welcome!</para>

<para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Install the <ulink url="http://winkde.org/pub/kde/ports/win32/installer/">KDE installer</ulink>, 
              See also <ulink url="http://windows.kde.org/">windows.kde.org</ulink> , 
              During install, choose the following option:</para>
       <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>installation path in this example was <filename>c:\kde4</filename></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>install mode: developer installation</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>compiler mode: mingw</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>select installation of binary and developement files of the following
              packages (Note that some packages are not in any category and one
              needs to view all to find them): mingw, gcc (including g++), cmake, dbus,
              qt4, kdelibs, kdebase, (TODO: check if this list is complete).</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist> 
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Create the source directory for krusader and checked out svn
              (you can use <ulink url="http://tortoisesvn.net/">TortoiseSVN</ulink> for that )
              In this example, <filename>c:/kde4/src/krusader_kde4</filename> was used.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Create the directory for generated files and cd to it
              In this example, <filename>c:/kde4/build/krusader_kde4</filename> was used.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Open the windows terminal (cmd.exe) and go to the build directory
              <filename>c:</filename>   
              <filename>cd \kde4\build\krusader_kde4</filename></para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>So as to avoid a cmake error, that it can't find some kde library which is for sure installed,
              it is necessary to make the following fix:
              There is a strange problem, that in cmake modules
              <filename>c:\kde4\share\apps\cmake\modules\KDELibsDependencies.cmake</filename>
              and
              <filename>c:\kde4\share\apps\cmake\modules\KDEPimLibsDependencies.cmake</filename>
              there are wrong hardcoded paths to the installation directory (<filename>D:/kde/kde-mingw</filename>),
              it is necessary to replace it manually to <filename>c:/kde4</filename>.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Run cmake in the build directory with the following parameters:
              <filename>c:\kde4\bin\cmake.exe -G "MinGW Makefiles" c:/kde4/src/krusader_kde4 -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=c:/kde4 -DCMAKE_INCLUDE_PATH=c:/kde4/include -DCMAKE_LIBRARY_PATH=c:/kde4/lib -DKDEWIN_DIR:PATH=c:/kde4 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=debugful</filename></para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Run make from mingw:
              <filename>C:\MinGW\bin\mingw32-make.exe install</filename></para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Run <filename>krusader.exe</filename> and enjoy!</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Known severe run-time problems on windows at the moment (19 Jun 2008):
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
           <para>Konfigurator crashes (launched even in the first run)</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
           <para>Slow start before the splashscreen appears</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
           <para>If <filename>C:</filename> is put to the location bar, you get incorrect content of panel.
                Using file:<filename>///C:/</filename> is more reliable</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
           <para>Not possible to navigate inside ftp</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
           <para>...</para>
         </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</para>


</sect1>



  <sect1 id="starting-krusader">
    <title>Starting &krusader;</title>
    <para>Type 
    <userinput>
      <command>krusader</command>
    </userinput> (lower case) at a command prompt. You can create
    shortcut on your desktop or create an entry in the
    (&kde;) menu. Read the previous page and the
    &faq-lnk; if &krusader; doesn't
    start.</para>
    <para>When &krusader; is started from the
    command line, various options can be specified to modify its
    behavior.</para>
    <screen>
    	<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command></userinput>
    	WARNING: Mt.Man: Born, looking around to get familiar. foo</screen>
    <note>
      <para>Do not worry about the messages you get in the
      &konsole;. These messages are log messages that
      can be used for debugging &krusader;.</para>
    </note>
    <para>You can also use 
    <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
    <keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> to open the Run Command dialog
    box, type 
    <userinput>
      <command>krusader</command>
    </userinput> (lower case) and press &Enter; or click
    on the 
    <guibutton>Run</guibutton> button.</para>
    <para>If &krusader; is installed by an RPM or DEB
    package then usually &krusader; can be started from
    the &kmenu;. &eg; on
    &Mandrake;-&Linux; 10.0 click on the
    &kicon; button and choose 
    <emphasis role="bold">
      <menuchoice>
        <guimenuitem>Applications</guimenuitem>
        <guimenuitem>File tools</guimenuitem>
        <guimenuitem>&krusader;</guimenuitem>
      </menuchoice>
    </emphasis>.</para>
    <variablelist>
      <title>Command-line options:</title>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--left</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;path&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>start left panel at
            &lt;path&gt;</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--right</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;path&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>start right panel at
            &lt;path&gt;</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--left</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt;,&lt;path3&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>start left panel at
            &lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt;,&lt;path3&gt;,
            with tabs.</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--profile</option>
          <replaceable>
          &lt;panel-profile&gt;</replaceable>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>load a 
            <link linkend="panel_profiles">panel-profile</link> on
            startup (this overrides the 
            <link linkend="konfig-startup">default startup
            profile</link>).</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
    <para>Examples: 
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--left=&lt;path&gt; --right=&lt;path&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--left=/mnt/cdrom --right=ftp://downloads@myserver.net</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--left=&lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt; --right=&lt;path1&gt;,&lt;path2&gt;,&lt;path3&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command><replaceable>--profile &lt;panel-profile&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>krusader</command> <replaceable>--profile ftp-managment</replaceable></userinput></screen>
    </para>
    <para>The standard &Qt; and &kde;
    command-line options are available, and can be listed by
    entering 
    <userinput>
      <command>krusader</command>
      <option>--help</option>
    </userinput>.</para>
    <variablelist>
      <title>Other command-line options:</title>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--help-qt</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>List Qt-specific options</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--help-kde</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>List KDE-specific options</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--help-all</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>List all options</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--author</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>Show the authors names</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>-v,--version</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>Show the version number</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      <varlistentry>
        <term>
          <option>--license</option>
        </term>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            <action>Show license information</action>
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="configuration">
    <title>Configuring &krusader;</title>
    <para>When you run &krusader; for the first time,
    the &krusader; configuration module 
    <link linkend="konfigurator">Konfigurator</link> will show up
    and allow you to configure &krusader; as well as
    detect installed packers and tools. You can always run
    Konfigurator again from the
    &settingsmenu-lnk;.</para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="default-file-manager">
    <title>Making &krusader; the default file
    manager</title>
    <para>To make &krusader; the default file manager in
    Gnome, <ulink url="http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/nonautilusplease">click here</ulink> for more information.
    </para>
    <para>To make &krusader; the default file manager in
    &kde;, <ulink url="http://groups.google.com/group/krusader-devel/browse_thread/thread/8209d785d3ba0ac6">click here</ulink> for more information. 
    </para>
  </sect1>
</chapter>


<chapter id="krusader_kde3_install">
<title>Installation on KDE3.x</title>
  <sect1 id="kde3_compilation">
    <title>Compiling and Installing Krusader-1.x on KDE3.x</title>
    <sect2>
    <title>Compiling &krusader;. What now?</title>
    <para>Check the environment variables
    &kdeqtdir-lnk;.</para>
    <para>To compile and install &krusader; on your
    system, type the following in the base directory of the
    &krusader; package:</para>
    <screen>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
      <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c 'make</command> <option>install'</option></userinput></screen>
    &krusaderui-rc-text; 
    <para>Since &krusader; uses 
    <command>autoconf</command> and 
    <command>automake</command> you should have no trouble compiling
    it. If you run into problems, read the detailed installation
    instructions below.</para></sect2>
 
 
<sect2 id="install_quickstart">
<title>Quickstart Installation Tutorial</title>

<sect3 id="install_quickstart_debian">
<title>Debian</title>
<para>These instructions should work as well on &debian; based distributions like: 
&ubuntu;, &kubuntu;, &linspire;, &kanotix;, ...</para>

<para>Add the next lines in the <filename>~/.bashrc</filename> configuration file
<screen>
<userinput><command>export</command> <option>QTDIR=/usr</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>export</command> <option>KDEDIR=/usr</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>export</command> <option>export KDEDIRS=/opt/krusader:/usr</option></userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>Install the <link linkend="faqi_missing_libs">build dependencies</link> for &krusader;  
<screen>
<prompt>#</prompt> <userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>build-dep krusader</option></userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para><link linkend="version_scheme">Download</link> the &krusader; sourcecode, unpack and 
enter the <filename>krusader_kde3</filename> directory.</para>

<para> 
The next command will create <command>./configure</command>
<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make -f</command> <option>Makefile.cvs</option></userinput>
</screen>
NOTE: you might need to upgrade <filename>automake</filename> and/or <filename>autoconf</filename>, if an error message appears. 
</para>

<para>Install &krusader; in the <filename>/opt</filename> directory to not overwrite the official &debian; binary <filename>/usr/bin/krusader</filename>, 
so that <command>krusader</command> will run the official &debian; package and <command>/opt/bin/krusader</command> runs the compiled version. 
It's recommended to use enable the full debug, so that you can possible problems at us. Run configure.  
<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command> <option>--prefix=/opt/krusader --enable-debug=full</option></userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>Compile &krusader;  
<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>Install Krusader  
<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c</command> <option>"make install"</option></userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para><command>/opt/bin/krusader</command> runs the compiled &krusader; version.</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="install_quickstart_suse">
<title>SuSE</title>
<para>Install the <link linkend="faqi_missing_libs">build dependencies</link> for &krusader;</para>  
<para><link linkend="version_scheme">Download</link> the &krusader; sourcecode, unpack and 
enter the <filename>krusader_kde3</filename> directory. Now you can compile and install &krusader;
<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make -f</command> <option>Makefile.cvs</option></userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command> <option>--prefix=/opt/krusader --enable-debug=full</option></userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c</command> <option>"make install"</option></userinput>
</screen>
</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="install_quickstart_others">
<title>For other Linuxes</title>
<para>Ofcource it's impossible to cover all Linuxes, but here are the general installation instructions.</para>

<para>Usually <command>./configure --prefix=/usr</command> should be used, though options like 
<filename>/opt/krusader</filename> are usually better so that you don't overwrite files that 
are installed by your package managment system. 
Please don't use the <filename>/usr/local</filename> directory as it simply won't work.</para> 
<para>Install the <link linkend="faqi_missing_libs">build dependencies</link> for &krusader;</para>  
<para><link linkend="version_scheme">Download</link> the &krusader; sourcecode, unpack and enter the <filename>krusader_kde3</filename> directory. Now you can compile and install &krusader;
<screen>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make -f</command> <option>Makefile.cvs</option></userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command> <option>--prefix=/usr</option></userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c</command> <option>"make install"</option></userinput>
</screen>
</para>    
</sect3>
    
</sect2>

<!-- install_tutorial -->
    
    <sect2 id="kde3_install">
      <title>Detailed Installation Tutorial for Krusader on KDE3.</title>
      <para>The next section will explain how to install
      &krusader; step by step. Questions about the
      installation process have been asked many times and
      especially users new to &Linux; often have
      problems compiling software from source. Therefore, we are
      trying to keep the explanations as detailed as possible even
      if they are mostly not &krusader; specific.
      Experienced users may easily skip most of the steps.</para>
      <para>Unfortunately, because not all &Linux;
      distributions follow the &fhs-url; it is impossible
      to write a tutorial that would cover all circumstances.
      However, these guidelines will help you in the right
      direction.</para>
      <note>
        <para>If you encountered problems, please read first this
        installation procedure and the &faq-lnk;. If the
        problem persists, use the &help-request-lnk; to
        ask for help.</para>
      </note>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>Install all packages and libraries that are needed
          for the compilation, please read the
          &faq-lnk;. 
          <tip>
            <para>If you install &kdevelop;, (almost)
            everything that you need to compile
            &krusader; will be installed on your
            computer. However, if you are not a developer, please
            follow the instructions and do not use
            &kdevelop; to compile
            &krusader;.</para>
          </tip></para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Open your favourite terminal emulator
          (&eg; &konsole;).</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>We recommend you create a separate directory to
          keep all the sources you compile in. This way you will
          have a better overview of the installed programs and it
          will be easier to uninstall them later. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>mkdir</command> ~/source</userinput></screen>
          The chosen directory is just an example, any
          other will work.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable (second line is needed) -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Copy the sources to the 
          <filename>~/source</filename> directory and unpack them. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cp</command> /<replaceable>"your_dir"</replaceable> /krusader-x.xx.tar.gz ~/source</userinput></screen>
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cd</command> ~/source</userinput></screen>
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>tar</command> <option>-xzvf</option> krusader-x.xx.tar.gz</userinput></screen>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Optional step: if you wish you can delete the
          tarball at this point as it is no longer needed. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>rm</command> krusader-x.xx.tar.gz</userinput></screen>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Change to the directory containing the sources. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cd</command> krusader-x.xx</userinput></screen>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem id="kde_qt_dir">
          <para>Check the environment variables 
          <envar>QTDIR</envar>and 
          <envar>KDEDIR</envar>. &krusader;'s 
          <command>./configure</command> script needs to know where
          the &Qt; and &kde; directories
          are.</para>
          <para>
          <envar>QTDIR</envar>: 
          <replaceable>&lt;path to your Qt
          installation&gt;</replaceable> &eg; 
          <filename>/usr/lib/qt3</filename> or 
          <filename>/usr/qt3</filename></para>
          <para>
          <envar>KDEDIR</envar>: 
          <replaceable>&lt;path to your KDE
          installation&gt;</replaceable> &eg; 
          <filename>/usr</filename> or 
          <filename>/opt/kde3</filename></para>
          <para>Normally your distribution will set them for you,
          but experience has shown that some do not. You can easily
          check the values with the 
          <command>echo</command> command. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>echo</command> $QTDIR</userinput>/usr/lib/qt3
                  <prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>echo</command> $KDEDIR</userinput>/usr</screen>

          If both commands give an output, the enviroment variables
          are set (the above example are the settings of
          &mandriva;-&Linux;). In case you
          receive empty lines, the variables are not set and you
          have to set them manually. If you do not know what to set
          the variables to, or if you want to check if the
          variables are correctly set, ask your distributor or use
          the 
          <command>find</command> command. 
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>find</command> <option>/usr /opt -name</option> qtconfig <option>-type f 2>/dev/null</option></userinput>
/usr/lib/qt3/bin/qtconfig
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>find</command> <option>/usr /opt -name</option> kdeinit <option>-type f 2>/dev/null</option></userinput>
/usr/bin/kdeinit</screen>
          In this case 
          <filename>/usr/lib/qt3</filename> is your 
          <envar>QTDIR</envar> and 
          <filename>/usr</filename> is your 
          <envar>KDEDIR</envar>. The installed binaries will go to 
          <filename>/usr/bin</filename>. Now we will set the
          enviroment variables with the 
          <command>export</command> command. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>export</command> QTDIR=<replaceable>&lt;replace with your QTDIR&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>export</command> KDEDIR=<replaceable>&lt;replace with your KDEDIR&gt;</replaceable></userinput></screen>
          </para>
          <note>
            <para>These enviroment variables are only set for the
            lifetime of your current shell. When you close your
            terminal and open a new one they will be gone. Assuming
            &krusader; is not the only
            &Qt;/&kde; program you want to
            compile, we recommend to make these settings permanent
            (&eg; append both export commands to your 
            <filename class="directory">/etc/profile</filename>)
            file.</para>
          </note>
          <para>If you can notdetermine your KDEDIR, 
          <command>kde-config --prefix</command> might help
          you.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable (second line is needed) -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>If you have downloaded a stable version 
          <filename>"krusader-x.xx.tar.gz"</filename> or a beta
          version 
          <filename>"krusader-x.xx-betax.tar.gz"</filename>, you
          can skip this step. In this case the 
          <filename>./configure</filename> script is
          provided.</para>
          <para>If you have downloaded a CVS build or nightly
          tarball 
          <filename>"krusader-cvs-yyyy-mm-dd.tar.gz"</filename>",
          you will have to run the following command to create the 
          <filename>./configure</filename> script: 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command> <option>-f</option>Makefile.cvs</userinput></screen>
          </para>
          <para>If everything is OK you will see the following
          output on your screen: 
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command> <option>-f</option> Makefile.cvs</userinput>
This Makefile is only for the CVS repository
This will be deleted before making the distribution
*** Creating acinclude.m4
*** Creating list of subdirectories
*** Creating configure.in
*** Creating aclocal.m4
*** Creating configure
*** Creating config.h template
*** Creating Makefile templates
*** Postprocessing Makefile templates
*** Creating date/time stamp
*** Finished
Don't forget to run ./configure
If you haven't done so in a while, run ./configure --help
<prompt>$</prompt></screen>
          </para>
          <note>
            <para>You will need to have 
            <application>autoconf 2.52, 2.53 or
            2.54</application> and 
            <application>automake 1.6</application> (or higher) to
            run the 
            <command>make -f Makefile.cvs</command> command</para>
          </note>
          <tip>
            <para>If you encounter problems with this command click
            <link linkend="krusader_svn">here</link>.
            &krusader; provides two nightly builds
            (snapshots) one with a 
            <filename>./configure</filename> script and one
            without.</para>
          </tip>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable (second line is needed) -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Your &Linux; distro
          &krusader; RPM or DEB package will normally
          install &krusader; in the 
          <filename>KDEDIR/bin</filename> directory. According to
          the &fhs-url;, any user installed files go to
          the 
          <filename>/usr/local</filename> directory. If you wish
          &krusader; to be installed in another
          directory, it can be determed with the prefix option. If
          you do not have root access, 
          <filename>/home/YOUR_USERNAME/.kde</filename> is probably
          a good choice. 
<screen>
foo

Krusader Project:
-----------------
Source code location: .
C Compiler:           gcc
C Compiler flags:     -ansi -W -Wall -pedantic -Wchar-subscripts -Wshadow -Wpointer-arith
-Wmissing-prototypes -Wwrite-strings -D_XOPEN_SOURCE=500 -D_BSD_SOURCE -O2
-Wformat-security -Wmissing-format-attribute
C++ Compiler:         g++
prefix:               /usr/local
kde_libraries:        /usr/include
kde_includes:         /usr/lib
kde_locale:           /usr/share/locale
qt_libraries:         /usr/lib/qt3/lib
qt_includes:          /usr/lib/qt3/include
KDEDIR:               /usr
QTDIR:                /usr/lib/qt3
Install path:         /usr/local/bin
krusader version:     1.80.0
krusader binary:      /usr/local/bin/krusader     (after 'make install')
Thank you for using Krusader

Good - your configure finished. Start make now
<prompt>bash$</prompt>
</screen>
          </para>
          <para>This is the output for
          &Mandrake;-&Linux; 10, other
          distributions may give a different output.</para>
          <tip>
            <para>At the end of the 
            <command>./configure</command> script you will find a
            summary of the most important settings, &eg;
            where the &krusader; binary will be
            installed (after the 'make install' command). This part
            will also display a warning if the environment
            variables &kdeqtdir-lnk; are empty.</para>
          </tip>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para>Since &krusader;-1.70.0 
          <command>./configure</command> has two specific
          &krusader; options: 
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para>
              <userinput>
                <command>./configure</command>
                <option>--without-konqueror</option>
              </userinput>: build &krusader; without support
              &konqueror;'s servicemenus, default=with.
              This means that &konqueror;'s right-click
              menu entries will not be available.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
              <userinput>
                <command>./configure</command>
                <option>--without-javascript</option>
              </userinput>: build &krusader; without JavaScript
              support, default=with. This means that the
              &javascript-console-lnk; will not be
              available.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>
              <userinput>
                <command>./configure</command>
                <option>--without-acl</option>
              </userinput>: build &krusader; without ACL support default=with.
              Sometimes this option is needed if you get a ACL compile error when running <command>make</command>.</para>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>In the past the support was always
          compiled in when the headers where found, now you have
          the choice.</para>
          <para>Use 
          <userinput>
            <command>./configure</command>
            <option>--help</option>
          </userinput>to see more options or read the 
          <filename>INSTALL</filename> file in the
          &krusader; sources.</para>
          <para>If you used another --prefix= than 
          <filename>$KDEDIR or /usr/local</filename>, it is
          recommended to do an extra check: 
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>kde-config</command> <option>--path exe</option></userinput>
/home/frank/.kde/bin/:/usr/bin/:/usr/local/bin/   
<prompt>$</prompt></screen>
          If the
          &lt;prefix_dir/bin&gt; directory is
          not shown, you need to use e.g. 
          <command>export KDEDIRS=/usr/local:/usr</command>. To
          make these settings permanent you can &eg;
          append this export command to your 
          <filename>/etc/profile</filename> file. After that you
          need to restart &kde;.</para>
          <note>
            <para>If 
            <command>./configure</command> fails, take a look at
            &missing-libs-lnk;.</para>
          </note>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Start the compilation process with the 
          <command>make</command> command. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput></screen>
          This will take about 3 - 40 minutes depending on how fast your computer runs. If
          everything goes well, it will &eg; end with
          the following messages: 
<screen>
foo
make[2]: Leaving directory `/home/source/krusader_kde3/tar'
make[2]: Entering directory `/home/source/krusader_kde3'
make[2]: Leaving directory `/home/source/krusader_kde3'
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/source/krusader_kde3'
<prompt>bash$</prompt>
</screen>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para>If 
          <command>./configure</command> was successful and 
          <command>make</command> failed for some reason, continue
          to read this page. If you can not find a solution to your
          problem, feel free to post a help request at our
          &forum-lnk;.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>If everything is correct, you can now install
          &krusader;. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c 'make</command> <option>install'</option></userinput></screen>
          You will be asked to enter your root
          password.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable (second line is needed) -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>&krusaderui-rc-text; 
        <para></para>
        <!-- Empty line to make it more readable --></listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Now you can 
          <link linkend="starting-krusader">
          start</link> &krusader;.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Optional step: Cleaning up to save disk space.
          Note: All compiled files created with the 
          <command>make</command>command will be deleted. 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command> <option>clean</option></userinput></screen>
          </para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable (second line is needed) -->
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>If you ever want to uninstall
          &krusader;, use 
          <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>su -c 'make</command> <option>uninstall'</option></userinput></screen>
          You will be asked to enter your root
          password.</para>
          <para></para>
          <!-- Empty line to make it more readable -->
        </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
      <para>If you followed the installation procedure and still
      encountered problems installing &krusader;, refer
      to &faq-lnk;. If the problem persists, use the
      &help-request-lnk; to ask for help.</para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>

  <sect1 id="mac-port">
    <title>Installing on Krusader-1.x on &MacOS;-X with KDE3.x</title>
    <indexterm>
      <primary>&MacOS;-X port</primary>
    </indexterm>

<note><para>Since June 2006 &krusader; is added into the 
            <ulink url="http://pdb.finkproject.org/pdb/package.php/krusader">&krusader; finkproject.org repository</ulink>
            Please check this url for the latest information about the &MacOS;-X port, 
            please read the &fink-url; documentation for more information, 
            all information below could be outdated, though they should still work :)
            From now on the port is maintained by 
            <ulink url="http://hritcu.wordpress.com/about/">Catalin Hritcu</ulink>.
</para></note>
    <para>Krusader is ported to &MacOS; thanks the &fink-url;-project and Jonas
    B&auml;hr and &bodo-tasche-url; .
    Unfortunately the only *stable* kdelib-binaries which
    &fink-url; has to offer is currenly 3.1.4 which
    means you need to use &krusader;-1.40 .
    Unfortunately the &MacOS; X &krusader;
    port does not have the same power as in a native
    &Linux;-&kde; environment. To run
    &krusader; you need also X11, which doesn't interact
    with the rest of the &MacOS; desktop. We hope that
    &Qt;4/&kde;4 will solve most of these
    problems. If you want a more recent Krusader version you need
    to compile &kde;. With &fink-url; it is
    rather easy but it takes some CPU cycles.</para>
    <para>Installation Instructions for &krusader;-1.40 
    <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Download and install &fink-url; with the
        &kde;3.1 binaries provided by fink and read the
        documentation.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Extract the 
        <filename>
        krusader-1.40.fink.darwin-ppc.tar.bz2</filename> package to 
        <filename>/sw/fink/dist/local/main/</filename> Only root can
        write here. You may have to create 'local' and
        'main'.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Run as root: 
        <command>fink install krusader</command></para>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist></para>
    <para>Follow these instructions if you wish to compile more
    source code or use a more recent version of
    &krusader;: 
    <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Install &apple-x11-url;</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Install the &apple-x11-sdk-url;
        developer-tools with X11 headers (gcc is included)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Install the fink-base</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Compile kdelibs 3.4.1 or higher (fink provides the
        necessary 
        <filename>.info</filename> files)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Compile the &krusader;-tarball or follow
        steps 2 and 3 of the previous section if a recent
        &krusader;-package &eg; 
        <filename>
        krusader-1.70.0.fink.darwin-ppc.tar.bz2</filename> is
        available</para>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist></para>

<para>Follow these instructions if you wish to compile &krusader;-1.80.0 : 
    <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Install &apple-x11-url;</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>nstall fink and 
        <ulink url="http://fink.sourceforge.net/faq/usage-fink.php#unstable">enable fink unstable</ulink>.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Compile and install the &kde; bundle in fink: fink install bundle-kde-ssl 
             (if you get no package found the previous step did not succeed).</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Use <filename>krusader.info</filename> (provided in the &krusader;-sourcecode) and then copy to 
        <filename>/sw/fink/dists/local/main/finkinfo</filename> .</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Compile and install &krusader; in fink: <command>fink install krusader</command>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Start X11 (startx) and in xterm run &krusader;
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    Thanks to <ulink url="http://hritcu.wordpress.com/2006/08/10/krusader-on-intel-mac/">Catalin Hritcu </ulink> for these install instructions.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>