<chapter id="using-krusader">

<!-- **********************************************************************
                            using-krusader.docbook
                          +++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  copyright            : (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006
                          Rafi Yanai, Shie Erlich, Frank Schoolmeesters
                          & the Krusader Krew
  e-mail               : krusader@users.sourceforge.net
  web site             : http://www.krusader.org
  description          : a Krusader Documentation File

***************************************************************************
* Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this            *
* document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,         *
* Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software         *
* Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and        *
* no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is available on the         *
* GNU site http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html or by writing to:         *
* Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,    *
* MA 02111-1307, USA.                                                     *
*********************************************************************** -->

<title>Using &krusader;</title>

<sect1 id="controls">
<title>Controls</title>

<sect2 id="control-general">
<title>General</title>

<para>
This is a rather short but important section that will go into the details of 
controlling &krusader;.
This section doesn't try to cover all the various key combinations for two reasons: 
<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
  <listitem>
     <para>there are just too many of them</para>
  </listitem>
  
  <listitem>  
     <para>most of &krusader;'s actions are configurable in the &konfiglookandfeel_lnk;</para>
  </listitem>
</orderedlist>
We will only mention the most important keyboard shortcuts with the default 
configuration but keep in mind that most of the &keybindigs_lnk; are configurable. 
If you find that you use a certain command a lot and want to know the shortcut 
for this command, or you want to change this command shortcut, then check out 
the &keybindigs_lnk; tab at the &konfiglookandfeel_lnk;.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="moving-around">
<title>Moving Around</title>
<para>By Moving Around we mean the transfer of the keyboard and mouse focus between the different parts
      of the &krusader; <link linkend="mainwindow">main window</link>. The focus can be in one of five places:
      the Left or Right Panel, the Menu Bar, the Command Line or the Terminal Emulator.
      The panel that has the focus is called the Active Panel. An Active Panel will remain active
      until the other panel receives the focus (&ie;: if the Left Panel was active and you clicked on
      the Command Line - then the Left Panel remains the Active Panel).
      You must deliberately change which panel is active.</para>

<para>The most common way to transfer the focus to a specific panel is to use the mouse to click on that panel.
       But you should be aware of the following:
<itemizedlist>
   <listitem>
     <para>Clicking on the Toolbar, the FN keys bar or the Status Bar does *not* change the
           focus.</para>
   </listitem>

<!--
   Quick View Panel: old Krusader feature , removed since krusader-1.12-beta1      
   <listitem>
     <para>The display part of the Quick View Panel does not accept clicks so you should click on the
           Location Toolbar of this panel if you want it to have focus.</para>
   </listitem>
-->   

   <listitem>
     <para>Pushing the <guibutton>"History"</guibutton> or the
           <guibutton>"Run in Terminal"</guibutton> buttons in the Command Line will not transfer
           the focus so you have click inside the Input Line.</para>
   </listitem>
   
   <listitem>
     <para>The Menu Bar can get the focus by choosing a menu but it keeps the focus until you choose a
           command, and then the focus returns to the previous owner.</para>
   </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>There are, of course, ways to use the keyboard to change the focus
<itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>The &Tab; Key will switch panels if one of the panel has the focus, or
                    rotate between all the commands in a menu if the Menu Bar is active.</para>
        </listitem>
    <listitem><para>The <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Down Arrow</keycap></keycombo> will
                    take you from the Active Panel to the Command Line or Terminal Emulator, and the
                    <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Up Arrow</keycap></keycombo> will take you
                    back from the Command Line to the Active Panel.</para>
        </listitem>
    <listitem><para>The &Esc; Key will make the Menu Bar return the focus, if it has it, to the previous Active Panel.</para>
        </listitem>
    <listitem><para>If you happen to be inside the Terminal Emulator, you can use the &Tab; Key, or the mouse, to navigate to an Active Panel.</para>
        </listitem>
    <listitem><para>Pressing <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>"Underlined Letter"</keycap></keycombo>
      from the Menu Bar will open that menu (unless this key combination is a "Reserved Key", used by one of
        &krusader;'s actions).</para>
        </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="selecting-files">
<title>Selecting</title>

<note><para>&krusader; offers 4 &mouse_selection_modes_lnk;, only &krusader;'s Mouse Selection Mode is explained here.</para></note>

<para>Selecting is a skill you need to master in order to get the most out of &krusader;. Since you can't
      select files in the Quick View Panel, and the Tree Panel only lets you select one directory at a time,
      this paragraph mainly explains how to select files in the List Panel filelist.</para>

<para>Moving the cursor is easy. Left-clicking on
      a file or directory (referred to herein as "elements" meaning, files AND directories) will select it.
      Here are some useful pointers that will make Krusader even easier to use:
      (assuming you're using &krusader;'s Mouse Selection Mode)

<itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>The <keycap>SPACE</keycap> and <keycap>Insert</keycap> key will toggle the selection of 
              the file under the cursor without affecting the selection of other files/directories, the cussor
              will go one position down.</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para>Pressing the <keycap>SPACE</keycap> on a Directory under the cursor will
                    <link linkend="calculate">calculate occupied space</link> without
                    affecting the selection of other files/directories.</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para><keycap>Left Clicking</keycap> on a file will select, or unselect, all previously selected
                      files.</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Left Clicking</keycap></keycombo> will toggle the 
              selection of the file under the cursor without affecting the selection of other files/directories.</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Left Clicking</keycap></keycombo> will
              select all the elements between the previous cursor location and the new one.</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Home</keycap></keycombo> selects everything above 
              the cursor (and unselect everthing below the cusror if selected).</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>End</keycap></keycombo> selects everything below 
              the cursor (and unselect everthing above the cusror if selected).</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para>The ".." entry is not selectable.</para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem><para>The &editmenu_lnk; can offer more ways to select your files.</para>
    </listitem>

</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="executing_commands">
<title>Executing Commands</title>
<para>There isn't a lot to say here, all you need to do is select some files (if you don't &krusader; will operate on
       the file(s) or directory(s) that have the focus), choose a <link linkend="menu-commands">Command</link>
       from the Menu Bar or use a Keyboard Shortcut (or the Right Click Menu) and the selected Command executes.
       See also <link linkend="executing_files">Executing Files</link>.
      </para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="quicksearch">
<title>Quicksearch</title>
<!-- Thanks to Heiner Eichmann -->

<para>This feature will do a quick search for the file name in the Active List Panel.</para>

<para>There are two quick search methods:
 <itemizedlist>
   <listitem><para>"Old Quicksearch": type <keycap>foo</keycap> (one character) to do
                   a quick search in the Active List Panel for a file beginning with "foo".</para>
              </listitem>
   <listitem><para>"New Quicksearch": type <keycap>foo</keycap> to open
                   the small quick search dialog box below the Active List Panel.
       Type the first few characters of the desired filename (more than one character allowed),
       the cursor will jump to that filename (if it exists), &eg; type "ab" to search for a file
       which begins with "ab".
                   The <keycap>Up/Down Arrow</keycap> will jump to the next or previous match.
                   &Esc; will close the quicksearch line.
                   The cursor will stay on the last Quicksearch file found.
   </para></listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</para>

<note><para>If you press <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>foo</keycap></keycombo>,
             the key binding shortcut will be executed. If there is no configured key binding,
       the remaining letter <keycap>foo</keycap> will used for the quick search.</para></note>

<para>Use &konfiglookandfeel_lnk; to change from the default configuration.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="context-menu">
<title>Context Menu</title>

<para>&krusader; has many Context menus that allow you to do fast operations with the mouse,
      usually a Right-Click will open the Context menu (depending on your &mouse_selection_modes_lnk; settings).
      This list gives an overview of the most important Context menus, use them
      to discover the available commands.
<itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>&main_toolbar_lnk; (orientation, text position , icon size)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&list_panel_lnk; on a file or directory</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&cmdline_lnk; (undo, paste, text completion, ...)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&termemu_lnk; (send signal, font, history, ...)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&foldertabs_lnk; (new, duplicate, close)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para><link linkend="krusearcher">KruSearcher</link>
                      Search results file list (F3 View, F4 Edit)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&mountman_lnk; (unmount, format, ...)</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&syncdirs_lnk; File List</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&useractions_lnk;</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&konqueror; Right-Click actions are shown in &krusader;</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>Show/hide <link linkend="list_panel">Column Headers</link></para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>&bookmarks_lnk; enable/disable permanent bookmarks.</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>...</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="basic">
<title>Basic File Management</title>

<sect2 id="executing_files">
<title>Executing Files</title>
<para>You can only execute files in the Active List Panel.
       To <keycap>execute</keycap> a file just <keycap>(double-)click on it or press Enter</keycap>
       when it is under the list cursor. &krusader; will open it in the default application
       for this file type (picture, textfile, ...) or the file will be executed (script, binary, ...).
       If you want to use <keycap>another application</keycap> to open the file, then
       <keycap>Right-Click</keycap> on the file and go to the "open with" sub-menu which will offer
       more options. &krusader; is compatible with &kde; default file-manager for all file types
       except archives that are opened inside the &krusader; panel and not in an external application.
       See <link linkend="konfig-archives">the archives page in Konfigurator</link> for details.</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="copying">
<title>Copying and Moving</title>
<para>To copy or move files/directories just select them and press <keycap>F5</keycap> 
      to <keycap>copy</keycap> or <keycap>F6</keycap> to
       <keycap>move</keycap> them.
       If checked the <guimenuitem>Preserve attributes (only on local targets)</guimenuitem> option, 
       &krusader; will try to preserve all attributes (time, owner, group) of the local files 
       according to the source depending on your permissions:
       <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>User preserving if you are root</para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>Group preserving if you are root or member of the group</para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>Preserving the timestamp</para></listitem>
       </itemizedlist> Using this option might slow down the copy/move process.
       A dialog will appear and allow you to choose the operation destination, 
       the default destination is the other-panel browsed directory. 
       If you enter a partial &URL; &krusader; will use
       the current panel directory as the &URL; base.</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="deleting">
<title>Deleting</title>
<para>Deleting files/directories is done by selecting them and pressing <keycap>F8</keycap> 
       or <keycap>Delete</keycap>.
       By <link linkend="konfig-general">default</link> it will be moved to &kde;'s Trash,
       <keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Delete</keycap></keycombo> will delete
       the file permanently.
       A dialog will ask for your confirmation and will warn you when deleting non-empty directories.
       Of course only operations that you are permitted to do by the Operating System will 
       be performed - you will be notified otherwise.
       If you don't wish to see the confirmation dialogs, you can disable them in the
       <link linkend="konfig-advanced">Konfigurator advanced tab</link>.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="shred">
<title>Shred Files</title>
<para>When you delete files in your local system they are not completely erased and the
      information stored in them can be recovered using special software and hardware tools. If
      you want to erase a file without recoverable traces, select the file and use
      <emphasis role="bold"><menuchoice><guimenu>Right-Click menu</guimenu>
      <guimenuitem>Shred</guimenuitem></menuchoice></emphasis>.
    </para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="renaming">
<title>Renaming files, Creating Directories, and Link Handling</title>
<para><keycap>Rename</keycap> the file under the cursor with the <keycap>F9</keycap> key
      or with two single mouseclicks. If only the filename needs to be renamed and not the extension
      you can configure this in the &konfiglookandfeel_lnk;.
      <keycap>Create a new directory</keycap> with the <keycap>F7</keycap> key.
      <keycap>Right-clicking on a regular file</keycap> will give you the <keycap>option "New Symlink"</keycap>,
      a dialog will prompt you to enter a symlink name.
      That name will point to the file/directory you Right-Clicked on.
      If the file you Right-Clicked on is a symlink you will also be presented with the
      "redirect link" option that will allow you change the link target.</para>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="viewing">
<title>Viewing and Editing files</title>
<para><link linkend="krviewer">KrViewer</link> has a chapter of its own.</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>


<!-- call the archives sect1 section -->
&archives;


</chapter>

