<sect1 id="vfs">
<title>Virtual file systems (VFS)</title>
<indexterm><primary>VFS</primary></indexterm>

<para>
 A basic <link linkend="features">OFM feature</link> is  VFS, 
 this an abstracted layer over all kinds of archived information 
 (ZIP files, FTP servers, TAR archives, NFS filesystems, SAMBA shares, ISO cd/dvd images, RPM catalogs, etc.),
 which allows the user to access all the information in these divergent types of filesystems transparently - 
 just like entering an ordinary sub-directory!
 &krusader; supports several VFS:
<itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para><link linkend="remote-connections">Remote connections VFS</link>: 
              provides the capability of working with a remote connection session (FTP, NFS, Samba, FISH, SFTP)
              like with local filesystems.
              It's perfect for complex remote operations and almost as powerful as most standalone GUI remote clients.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para><link linkend="archives">Archive VFS</link>:
     allows to browse archives in VFS as it was a directory (ace, arj, bzip2, deb, gzip, iso, lha, rar, rpm, tar, zip and 7-zip).</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para><link linkend="archives">Search VFS</link>: <guibutton>Feed to listbox</guibutton> will place the
     search results in VFS.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para><link linkend="synchronizer">Synchronizer VFS</link>: places the
     synchronizer results in VFS.
     </para>
     </listitem>
</itemizedlist>
     Actions you perform on the files in VFS are performed on the 'real' files.
     You don't just delete files from the VFS - you delete them from your hard drive.
     Limitations: you can't create directories inside in a VFS.
</para>

<para>It's possible to keep the directory structure when doing a from copy from a virtial folder
to a non virtual folder, by selecting the "Keep virtual directory structure" checkbox of the copy dialog. 
Imagine the next virtual folder:
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>file:/home/myhome/mydir1/myfile1</userinput></screen> 
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>file:/home/myhome/mydir1/myfile2</userinput></screen> 
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>file:/home/myhome/mydir2/myfile3 </userinput></screen> 

Than do the next steps:
<itemizedlist>
   <listitem><para>go to the virtual folder and select the files</para>
             </listitem>
   <listitem><para>select a destination folder (non virtual!)</para>
             </listitem> 
   <listitem><para>press <keycap>F5</keycap> -> copy dialog appears</para>
             </listitem> 
   <listitem><para>Check <guilabel>Keep virtual directory structure</guilabel></para>
             </listitem> 
   <listitem><para>Select <filename>/home/myhome/</filename> for base &URL;</para>
             </listitem> 
   <listitem><para>Start copy by pressing OK</para>
             </listitem> 
</itemizedlist>

The result will be::
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>destinationdir/mydir1/myfile1</userinput></screen> 
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>destinationdir/mydir1/myfile2</userinput></screen> 
<screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput>destinationdir/mydir2/myfile3</userinput></screen>
</para>

</sect1>
