<!--
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2000-2003 Shie Erlich <erlich@users.sourceforge.net>
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2000-2003 Rafi Yanai <yanai@users.sourceforge.net>
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2004-2010 Frank Schoolmeesters <codeknight@users.sourceforge.net>
    SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2000-2022 Krusader Krew <https://krusader.org>
-->
<sect1 id="calculate">
  <title>Calculate Occupied Space</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>Occupied Space</primary>
  </indexterm>
  <!-- Thanks to Heiner Eichmann -->
  <para>There are two ways to calculate the occupied space of
  files/folders.</para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>Pressing the 
      configurable shortcut for the <guilabel>Calculate occupied space</guilabel> on a folder under the cursor
      instantly calculates the occupied size.</para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>To calculate how much disk space is occupied by the
      selected files and folders in the active panel select 
        <menuchoice>
          <guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
          <guimenuitem>Calculate Occupied Space</guimenuitem>
        </menuchoice>.
      After a small delay, a dialog box will be
      displayed with total occupied space and the number of files
      and folders you selected. The space occupied by every
      selected folder will be shown as if the user just pressed 
      configurable shortcut on those folders. If the active
      panel is browsing an archive, the numbers will apply to the
      unpacked size of the selected files and folders, not
      their compressed size. After the calculation the selection
      state will be toggled and the cursor will move one step
      downwards.</para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>Calculating the occupied space on remote
  file systems is supported.
  <note>
    <para>Performing this operation on a very large file system
    (thousands of files) may be time-consuming. You can cancel the
    calculation process at any time by clicking the 
    <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> button.</para>
  </note></para>
</sect1>
